Gordon was not happy with the product that he ordered from an online retailer.
He tried to contact the seller’s post purchase service desk, but they denied any help in this matter.
Therefore, Gordon wants to avenge this by damaging the retailer’s services.
He uses a utility named
        high orbit ion cannon (HOIC) that
            he downloads from an underground site
      to flood the retailer’s system with requests so that the retailer’s site
      was unable to handle any further requests even from legitimate users’ purchase requests.
 What type of attack is Gordon using?


Gordon is taking advantage of an incorrect configuration that leads to access with higher-than-expected privilege.

Gordon is using a denial-of-service attack. : TRUE

Gordon is using poorly designed input validation routines to create and/or to alter commands so that he gains access to the secure data and execute commands.

Gordon is executing commands or is viewing data outside the intended target path.


------------------------

What is the goal of a DDoS attack?


Create bugs in web applications

Exploit a weakness in the TCP stack

Render a network or computer incapable of providing normal service : TRUE

Capture files from a remote compute


----------------------------

Identify the DoS attack that
              does not use botnets for the attack.
Instead, the attackers
        exploit flaws found in the network that uses the
              DC++ (direct connect) protocol,
                  which allows the exchange of files between instant messaging clients.


Bandwidth attack

Service request flood attack

Peer-to-peer attack : TRUE
    Peer-to-peer attack is a form of DDoS attack.
    Attacker exploits a number of bugs in
            peer-to-peer servers to
                    initiate a DDoS attack.
    Unlike a botnet-based attack, a peer-to-peer attack
                eliminates the need for attackers to communicate with the clients it subverts.
                Here, the attacker instructs clients of large peer-to peer file-sharing hubs to
                              - disconnect from their peer-to-peer network and instead,
                              - connect to the victim’s website.
    With this, several thousand computers may aggressively try to
              connect to a target website  ->      decreases the performance of the target website.

DRDoS attack

-----------------------------
Which of the following is considered to be a smurf attack?


An attacker sends a large amount TCP traffic with a spoofed source IPaddress.

An attacker sends a large number of TCP connection requests with spoofed source IPaddress.

An attacker sends a large number of TCP/user datagram protocol (UDP) connection requests.

An attacker sends a large amount of ICMP traffic with a spoofed source IPaddress : TRUE

---------------------------

Systems administrator in a company named “We are Secure Ltd.” has encountered with a problem where
      he suspects the possibility of a cyber attack
              over his company’s router.
He observed that
          vast amount of network traffic is
                  directed toward the network router,
causing router CPU utilization to reach 100% and making it non-functional to legitimate users.
What kind of attack is this?


Buffer overflow (BoF) attack

DoS attack  : TRUE

MitM attack

SQL injection (SQLi) attack



-------------------------
Jacob Hacker is a disgruntled employee and is fired from his position as a network engineer.
He downloads a program outside the company that
      transmits a very small packet
                  to his former company’s router,
thus
      overloading the router
      causing lengthy delays in operational service of his former company.

He loads the program on a bunch of computers at several public libraries and executes them. What type of attack is this?


HTTP response-splitting attack

SSH Brute-Force attack

DDoS attack : TRUE

Man-in-the-middle attack

Explanation:

DDoS attack:
    DDoS is the right answer since Jacob has used
            multiple public libraries to
                        overload his former company’s router.
    DDoS represents a flood attack.

Man-in-the-middle attack: When 2 parties are communicating, a man-in-middle attack can take place, in which a third party intercepts a communication between the two parties without their knowledge.

HTTP Response-Splitting Attack:
          web-based attack
          tricks the server by
                - injecting new lines into response headers,
                - injecting arbitrary code  into response headers.
                - adding header response data into
                              input field so that
                                        server splits the response into 2 responses.
          This type of attack exploits vulnerabilities in input validation.

SSH Brute Force Attack:
        Attackers use SSH protocols to
                create an encrypted SSH tunnel between 2 hosts in order to
                                transfer unencrypted data over an insecure network.

        Usually SSH runs on TCP port 22.
        In order to conduct an attack on SSH,  attacker
                      scans  entire SSH server using
                                  bots (performs TCP port 22 port scan)
                                        to identify possible vulnerabilities.

----------------------
When a client’s computer is infected with malicious software which connects to the remote computer to receive commands,
the client’s computer is called a ___________


Command and Control(C&C)

Bot : TRUE

Client

Botnet

------------------
When a client’s computer is infected with malicious software which connects to the remote computer to receive commands,
the remote computer is called ___________


Botnet

Server

C&C : TRUE

Bot

-----------------

Which of the following
          volumetric attacks technique
                transfers messages to the broadcast IP address in order
                        to increase the traffic over a victim system and consuming his entire bandwidth?


Flood attack : just involves zombies sending large volumes of traffic
                    to victim’s systems in order to
                            clog these systems’ bandwidth.

Application layer attacks : not volumetric attacks

Protocol attack : not volumetric attacks

Amplification attack : TRUE
    amplification attack engages the attacker or zombies to
              transfer messages to a broadcast IP address.
    This method amplifies malicious traffic that consumes victim systems’ bandwidth.

--------------------

The DDoS tool created by anonymous sends
              junk HTTP GET and POST requests
                      to flood the target,
and its second version of the tool (the first version had different name) that was used in the so-called Operation Megaupload is called _______.


BanglaDOS

Dereil

HOIC : TRUE
HOIC is the successor of
          low orbit ion cannon (LOIC) (which was used in operation payback by anonymous),
     is the version that has some additional features like hiding attacker’s geolocation

Pandora DDoS

--------------------
