Don Parker, a security analyst, is hired to
        perform a DoS test on a company.
Which of the following tools can he successfully utilize to perform this task?


N-Stalker :  Webapp security Scanner to
                        search for vulnerabilities such as XSS and SQLi.


Cain and Abel :  Password cracking tool;

Hping3 : TRUE
Hping3 is a command-line tool that can be used to send
            custom TCP/IP packets such as
                    a huge number of SYN packets that can crash the target machine.

Recon-ng :  information gathering tool

----------------

Paul has been contracted to test a network, and he intends to test for any DoS vulnerabilities of the network servers.
Which of the following automated tools can be used to discover systems that are vulnerable to DoS?


John the ripper : password cracking tool

Nmap : TRUE
        security scanner for network exploration.
        allows you to discover hosts and services on a computer network, thus creating a "map" of the network.
        sends specially crafted packets to the target host
        then analyzes  responses to accomplish its goal.
        Either a network administrator or an attacker can use this tool for their specific needs.
        Network administrators can use Nmap for network inventory, managing service upgrade schedules, and monitoring host or service uptime.
        In the process of network exploration and monitoring,
              Nmap can be used to test for DoS vulnerabilities.

Netcraft : information gathering.

Cain and Abel : perform password cracking

--------------------

A systems administrator in a small company named “We are Secure Ltd.” has a problem with their Internet connection.
The following are the symptoms:
  the speed of the Internet connection is slow (so slow that it is unusable).
  The router connecting the company to the Internet is
    - accessible
    - showing a large amount of SYN packets flowing from 1 single IP address.

The company’s Internet speed is only 5 Mbps, which is usually enough during normal working hours.
What type of attack is this?


DDoS

DRDoS

MitM

DoS : TRUE
      Since the attack is coming from one single IP address,
          it is not a DDoS because all requests come from the same IP and
          it is not a DRDoS because of the SYN packets – in reflection attacks
                    other type of packets will be used
                    (answer that reflection device is sending to an initial request).
          It is not MitM – MitM does not have anything to do with DoS (at least not directly).

------------------------

A systems administrator in a small company named “We are Secure Ltd.” has a problem with their Internet connection.
The following are the symptoms:
          The speed of the Internet connection is slow (so slow that it is unusable).
          The router connecting the company to the Internet is
                  - accessible
                  - showing large amount of router solicitation messages from neighboring routers
                          even though the router is not supposed to receive any of these messages.

What type of attack is this?


DDoS (Distributed Denial of Service)

MitM (Man in the Middle)

DoS (Denial of Service)

DRDoS (Distributed Reflected Denial of Service) : Distributed

     A distributed reflection denial-of-service attack (DRDoS),
     also known as a “spoofed” attack,
     involves the use of
            multiple intermediary & secondary machines that
                    contribute to the actual DDoS attack against the target machine or application.

     exploits  TCP 3-way handshake vulnerability.

     involves attacker machine,
              intermediary victims (zombies),
              secondary victims (reflectors), and
              target machine.
     launches this attack by sending requests
            to the intermediary hosts, which in turn
                      reflects the attack traffic to the target.

     It is not DoS or DDoS because the attack is being reflected.
     It is not MitM—MitM does not have anything to do with DoS (at least not directly).

-----------------

Martha is a network administrator in a company named “Dubrovnik Walls Ltd.”
She realizes that her network is under a DDoS attack.
After careful analysis, she realizes that
          large amounts of UDP packets are being sent
                      to the organizational servers that are present behind the “Internet facing firewall.”

What type of DDoS attack is this?


Volume (volumetric) attack : TRUE
          volume-based attack which includes
                      UDP floods,
                      ICMP floods, and
                      other spoofed packet floods.

SYN flood attack :   It is not SYN flood since this is part of protocol attacks.


Protocol attack : It is not protocol attack, which includes
                      SYN floods,
                      fragmented packet attacks,
                      ping of death attack,
                      smurfDDoS,
                      teardrop attack,
                      land attack, and so on.


Application layer attack :  It is not application layer attack, which includes
                                      GET/POST floods,
                                      attacks that targets web server,
                                      application or OS vulnerabilities,
                                      Slowloris,
                                      and so on.

----------------------------

Martha is a network administrator in a company named “Dubrovnik Walls Ltd.”.
She realizes that her network is under a DDoS attack. After careful analysis,
she realizes that a large amount of
    fragmented packets
are being sent to the servers present behind the “Internet facing firewall.”

What type of DDoS attack is this?


Protocol attack : TRUE

Volume (volumetric) attack

SYN flood attack

Application layer attack

------------------

Martha is a network administrator in company named “Dubrovnik Walls Ltd.”
She realizes that her network is under a DDoS attack. After careful analysis,
she realizes that large amount of
      HTTP POST requests
are being sent to the web servers behind the WAF.
The traffic is not legitimate, since the web application requires
      workflow to be finished in order to
            send the data with the POST request,
                    and this workflow data is missing.

So, What type of DDoS attack is this?


Application layer attack : TRUE

Protocol attack

SYN flood attack

Volume (volumetric) attack

-------------

The DDoS tool used by anonymous in the so-called Operation Payback is called _______


Dereil

LOIC : TRUE

BanglaDOS

HOIC

LOIC is the 1st version of the tool and it was used in
    Operation Payback.

HOIC is the 2nd version of the tool with some additional features, and it was used in the
      Operation Megaupload.

BanglaDos and Dereil do not have direct connection with anonymous group.


-----------------------
