Which of the following DoS attack detection techniques

          analyzes network traffic in terms of spectral components?

It divides incoming signals into various frequencies and examines different frequency components separately.


      - Activity Profiling

      - Wavelet-based Signal Analysis : TRUE



                        checks for individual components of the frequency present at a particular time
                        provides a description of those components.
                        The presence of an unfamiliar frequency indicates
                              suspicious network activity.

                        A network signal consists of a
                                - time-localized data packet flow signal
                                - background noise.

                        Wavelet-based signal analysis filters out
                              the anomalous traffic flow input signals
                                  from background noise.

                        Regular network traffic is generally
                                low-frequency traffic.

                        During an attack, the high-frequency components of a signal increase.

      - Change-point Detection

      - Signature-based Analysis

-----------------------

Which algorithm does the “sequential change-point detection” technique use
          to identify & locate the DoS attacks?

Obfuscation

Cumulative Sum : TRUE

Advanced Encryption Standard

BlackShades

Explanation:
The cumulative sum control chart (CUSUM) is a
            sequential analysis technique

It is typically used in
          monitoring change detection.

The sequential change-point detection technique
      - filters network traffic by
              - IP addresses,
              - targeted port numbers, and
              - communication protocols used
      - stores the traffic flow data in
                  a graph
                      that shows the traffic flow rate versus time.

Change-point detection algorithms isolate changes in network traffic statistics and in traffic flow rate caused by attacks.

If there is a drastic change in traffic flow rate, a DoS attack may be occurring.

This technique uses

        Cumulative Sum (Cusum) algorithm to

              identify & locate
                    DoS attacks;

the algorithm calculates deviations in the actual versus expected local average in the traffic time series.

The sequential change-point detection technique identifies the typical scanning activities of the network worms.

Obfuscation is the obscuring of the intended meaning of communication by making the message difficult to understand, usually with confusing and ambiguous language.

BlackShades

        name of a malicious Trojan horse used by hackers to control computers remotely.

The Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) is a

        symmetric block cipher
        chosen by the U.S. Government to protect classified information
        implemented in software & hardware throughout the world to encrypt sensitive data.



---------------------------

Smith, a network security administrator,
is configuring routers in his organization
    to protect the network from DoS attacks.

Which router feature can he use
  to prevent SYN flooding effectively?

          TCP Intercept : TRUE

                          TCP Intercept Mode
                          router intercepts

                                  SYN packets that are

                                      - sent by the clients to the server
                                      - matches with an extended "access list".

                          If there is a match,
                                  then
                                    - On behalf of the destination Server,
                                           The "intercept software" establishes

                                                    a connection with the "client".

                                    - On behalf of the Client,
                                        The "intercept software" also establishes

                                                    a connection with the destination "server"

                          Once the 2 "half-connections" are established,
                                    the intercept software
                                            combines them transparently.


          Egress Filtering : scans the headers of IP packets
                                                              going out of the network

          Mac Address Filtering﻿ : define a list of devices and only allows those devices on your network.

          Ingress Filtering :  protects against
                                                flooding attacks that
                                                                        originate from valid prefixes (IP addresses)

-----------------------

Which of the following is an attack detection technique
that monitors the
      network packet’s header information?
This technique also determines the
          increase in overall number of distinct clusters and
          activity levels among the network flow clusters?


Activity profiling : TRUE

            done based on the
                  average packet rate for a network flow,
                          which consists
                                      of consecutive packets
                                              with similar packet header information.

            Packet header information includes the
                        - destination IP
                        - sender IP ,
                        - ports,
                        - transport protocols .



Ping of death attack : type of ICMP attack

Wavelet-based signal analysis :   denotes an
                                          input signal in terms of
                                                          spectral components

Sequential Change-point detection : used to identify
                                            typical scanning activities of
                                                            network worms.

-------------------------------

Ivan works as security consultant at “Ask Us Intl.”
One of his clients is under a large-scale volume-based DDoS attack,
and they have to decide how to deal with the issue.
They have some DDoS appliances that are currently not configured.
They also have a good communication channel with providers,
and some of the providers have fast network connections.
In an ideal scenario, what would be the
        best option to deal with this attack ?
Bear in mind that this is a

          volume-based DDoS attack

          with at least 1 000 000 bots sending the traffic from the entire globe!


Block the traffic at the provider level :

          Blocking the traffic at the provider level is a viable option,
                  but in this case,
                        since the attack cannot be easily filtered
                        (Since the traffic coming from the entire globe),
                                this is not an apt solution.

Filter the traffic at the company's internet facing routers :

          will not work because
                traffic is already there,
                      in this case, it is impossible to do anything at the client’s site.


Filter the traffic at the provider level :

        Filtering the traffic at the provider level is the
                same thing as blocking the traffic at the provider level,
                          so this is not a correct answer

Absorb the attack : TRUE

            " Absorb the attack " since this is a really large volume of traffic,
                  and using additional capacity (DDoS appliances that are currently not configured) to absorb the attack.

                  Most of the other options are not practically feasible.

------------------------------------------------------------------

Ivan works as security consultant at “Ask Us Intl.”

One of his clients is under a large-scale

          protocol-based DDoS attack, and


      they have to decide how to deal with this issue.

They have some DDoS appliances that are currently

                  not configured.

They also have a
          good communication channel with providers,
    and some of the providers have
          fast network connections.

In an ideal scenario,
    what would be the best option to deal with this attack ?


Bear in mind that this is a protocol-based DDoS attack with at least
10 000 bots sending the traffic from the entire globe!


      Block the traffic at the provider level : TRUE

                since the provider can easily block specific protocols,
                thereby effectively preventing traffic to reach the client’s site.


      Filter the traffic at the company Internet facing routers :

              option, but

                    the best thing to do is to filter the traffic as high as possible,
                    and since in this case, we do have a
                                      good communication channel with the provider(s),
                                                  we will not use the filtering at client site.

      Absorb the attack at the client site :

                not the answer, since this is not the best solution in this case (provider level or client site).

      Absorb the attack at the provider level :

                not the answer, since this is not the best solution in this case (provider level or client site).

-------------------------

John’s company is facing a DDoS attack.

While analyzing the attack, John has learned that the
          attack is originating from the entire globe, and
          filtering  traffic at  ISP Level ( Internet Service Provider’s)
                  is impossible task to do.

After a while, John has observed that
          his personal computer at home was also compromised
            similar to that of the company’s computers.

He observed that his computer is
              sending large amounts of UDP data
                    directed toward his company’s public IPs.

John takes his personal computer to work and starts a forensic investigation.

Two hours later, he earns crucial information:
            the infected computer is connecting to the C&C server, and unfortunately,
                        the communication between
                          C&C & the infected computer is
                              encrypted.

Therefore, John intentionally lets the
              infection spread to another machine in his company’s secure network,
              where he can
                    observe & record
                        all the traffic between the
                            Bot software & the Botnet.

After thorough analysis he discovered an interesting thing that the
                  initial process of infection
                        downloaded the malware
                              from an FTP server
                                    which consists of username & password
                                                      in cleartext format.

 John connects to the FTP Server and finds the
        Botnet software including the C&C on it, with
        username and password for C&C in configuration file.

 What can John do with this information?


Neutralize handlers : TRUE

    “neutralize handlers,” because with admin’s access to C&C John can
                                stop the attack,
                                disable the C&C software,
                                and/or change the password to
                                          stop the DDoS attack on his company’s network.
     Deflect the attack and mitigate the attack are .

Mitigate the attack

      not the correct answers because , he is literally stopping the attack

Protect Secondary Victims

      not the correct answer because
                  secondary victims are still infected.

Deflect the attack

     not the correct answers because , he is literally stopping the attack

-----------------------------------------------

John’s company is facing a DDoS attack.

While analyzing the attack, John has learned that the
                    attack is originating from entire globe and
                    filtering the traffic at the Internet Service Provider’s (ISP) level is an
                          impossible task to do.

                    After a while, John has observed that his
                                    personal computer at home was also compromised similar to that of the company’s computers.

                    He observed that his computer is sending large amounts of
                                      UDP data directed toward his
                                            company’s public IPs.

John takes his personal computer to work and starts a forensic investigation.
Two hours later, he earns crucial information:

        - the infected computer is connecting to the C&C server, and
        -  unfortunately,  communication between C&C and the infected computer is encrypted.

      Therefore, John intentionally lets the infection
                          spread to another machine in his company’s secure network,
                          where he can
                                observe & record
                                      all the traffic between
                                          the Bot software and the Botnet.

  After thorough analysis he discovered an interesting thing that the
    initial process of infection downloaded the malware from
            an FTP server
                  which consists of username and password
                      in cleartext format.
  John connects to the FTP Server and
      finds the Botnet software including the C&C on it, with
              username and password for C&C
                  in configuration file.

  What can John do with this information?

After successfully stopping the attack against his network,
          John connects to the C&C again,
                dumps all the IPs the C&C is managing, and
                sends this information to the national CERT.

What is John trying to do?


        Mitigate the attack

        Neutralize handlers

        Deflect the attack

        Protect secondary victims : TRUE

                      CERT will try to inform
                              all the infected computer owners (or at least providers) that
                                        their computers are infected.

                      If the IP in question is not in this CERTs jurisdiction,
                              they will send the information to
                                            the CERT “in charge” for this IP address range.

                      Not all the users will be directly contacted, but
                                        ISP could block specific traffic flowing from infected computers.


----------------------------

Sarah is facing one of the biggest challenges in her career—

  she has to design the early warning DDoS detection techniques for her employer.

She starts with
                    - network analysis &
                    - detection of an increase in activity levels &
                    - analyzing the network flows
                      (focusing on network’s packet header information).

Her idea is to
                  try to spot the increase in specific traffic,
                            which is above normal traffic rate
                                    for this specific network flow.

Which DDoS detection technique is she trying to implement?


Change-point detection

NetFlow detection

Wavelet-based signal analysis

Activity profiling : TRUE

--------------------------------------

Sarah is facing one of the biggest challenges in her career—she has to
            design the early warning DDoS detection techniques for her employer.

She starts developing the detection technique which uses

              signal analysis to
                      detect anomalies.

The technique she is employing analyzes network traffic in terms of

            spectral components

      where she
                - divides incoming signals
                          into various frequencies &
                - analyzes different frequency components separately.

Which DDoS detection technique is she trying to implement?

//////////////
          Wavelet-based signal analysis : TRUE

///////////
          Activity profiling :
                 - monitors the network’s packet header information
                 - identifies increase in specific type of traffic.

//////////////
          Change-point detection :
                   filters network traffic by  :  - IP addresses,
                                                  - targeted port numbers,
                                                  - communication protocols used,
                   stores the traffic flow data
                                  in a graph that shows the traffic flow rate versus time.
//////////////
          NetFlow detection :
              could be a part of activity profiling,
                      but
                    it is not used as a self-contained DDoS detection technique.

Explanation:

The correct answer is “Wavelet-based signal analysis” because this technique
          divides the signal in
              spectral components
        & analyzes it.

The wavelet analysis technique analyzes network traffic in terms of spectral components.

            - divides incoming signals into various frequencies &
            - analyzes different frequency components separately.

                              -> Analyzing each spectral window’s energy
                                            determines the presence of anomalies.

These techniques check frequency components present at a specific time and provide a description of those components.
Presence of an unfamiliar frequency indicates suspicious network activity.

---------------------------
