A security engineer has been asked to deploy a

    secure remote access solution

that will allow employees
    to connect to the company’s internal network.

Which of the following can be implemented to minimize the opportunity for a man-in-the-middle attack to occur?


      SSL

      Mutual authentication

      IPSec :
                IPSec is a protocol suite developed by the IETF
                for securing IP communications by
                    - authenticating
                    &
                    - encrypting

                each IP packet of a communication session.

                It is deployed widely
                    - to implement virtual private networks (VPNs)
                    - for remote user access through dial-up connection to private networks.

      Static IP addresses

--------------------------------------

John, a malicious attacker, was intercepting packets during transmission between the client and server in a TCP and UDP session, what is this type of attack called?


        Session hijacking

        Network level hijacking : TRUE

              Network-level hijacking is the interception of packets during transmission between the client and server in a TCP and UDP session.


        Application level hijacking

              Application-level hijacking is about taking control over the https user session by obtaining the session IDs.

        Intrusion

------------------------------------

Network-level session hijacking attacks ____________ level protocols.


        Transport and internet level protocols : TRUE

        Data link level protocols

        Network or Internet level protocols

        Application level protocols


---------------------------------

Which of the following is not a type of network-level hijacking?


        Session Hijacking  : TRUE

        UDP Hijacking

        Man-in-the-Middle: Packet Sniffer

        Blind Hijacking

Explanation:
Session hijacking is one of the threats of ARP poisoning and not a network-level hijacking alone.

Blind Hijacking, Man-in-the-Middle: Packet Sniffer along with Forged ICMP and ARP Spoofing, and UDP Hijacking are types of network-level hijacking attacks.

-----------------------------------------

If an attacker intercepts an established connection between two communicating parties using spoofed packets, and then pretends to be one of them, then which network-level hijacking is he performing?


              RST hijacking

              TCP/IP hijacking : TRUE

              Man-in-the-middle: packet sniffer

              IP spoofing

Explanation:
In TCP/IP hijacking, an attacker
        intercepts an established connection between 2 communicating parties using spoofed packets, and then pretends to be one of them.

In this approach, the attacker uses spoofed packets
          to redirect the TCP traffic to his/her own machine.
Once this is successful, the victim’s connection hangs
and the attacker is able to communicate with the host’s machine on behalf of the victim.


---------------------------

Out of the following, which network-level session hijacking technique is useful in gaining unauthorized access to a computer with the help of a trusted host’s IP address?


          IP Spoofing: Source Routed Packets  : TRUE

          Bling Hijacking

          UDP Hijacking

          TCP/IP Hijacking

Explanation:

The source-routed packets technique is useful in
  gaining unauthorized access to a computer
    with the help of a trusted host’s IP address.

This type of hijacking allows attackers to
          create their own acceptable packets
                to insert into the TCP session.

First, the attacker spoofs the trusted host’s IP address
  so that the server managing a session with the host,
    accepts the packets from the attacker.

-----------------------

Which of the following tools can be used to perform RST hijacking on a network?



      Recon-ng

      Nmap

      FOCA

      Colasoft’s Packet Builder   : TRUE

  Explanation:

  RST hijacking involves
          injecting an authentic-looking reset (RST) packet
          using spoofed source address
          and predicting the acknowledgment number.

  The hacker can reset the victim’s connection if it uses
      an accurate acknowledgment number.

  The victim believes that the source has sent the reset packet
      and resets the connection.

  RST Hijacking can be carried out using

      a packet crafting tool such as
        Colasoft’s Packet Builder

    and TCP/IP analysis tool such as
        tcpdump.

----------------------------------

Maira wants to establish a connection with a server using the 3-way handshake.

As a first step she sends a packet to the server with the
SYN flag set.

In the second step, as a response for SYN,
she receives packet with a flag set.

Which flag does she receive from the server?


        FIN

        RST

        SYN+ACK : TRUE

        ACK

----------------------------

Out of the following, which network-level session hijacking technique can be used
to inject malicious data or commands
  into the intercepted communications in a TCP session?


          RST Hijacking

          Blind Hijacking : TRUE

          UDP Hijacking

          TCP/IP Hijacking :
          In TCP/IP hijacking, an attacker intercepts an established connection between two communicating parties using spoofed packets, and then pretends to be one of them.
          In this approach, the attacker uses spoofed packets to redirect the TCP traffic to his/her own machine.
          Once this is successful, the victim's connection hangs and the attacker is able to communicate with the host’s machine on behalf of the victim.

          Explanation:

          In blind hijacking, a hacker can inject
              malicious data or commands

                into the intercepted communications in a TCP session,
                    even if the victim disables source routing.

          Here, an attacker correctly guesses the next ISN of a computer attempting
          to establish a connection;

          the attacker sends malicious data or a command,
                such as password setting
                        to allow access from another location on the network,

          but the attacker can never see the response. !!!!!
          To be able to see the response,
                      a man-in-the-middle attack works much better.

----------------------------------------

Which of the following protocols is an extension of IP to send error messages? An attacker can use it to send messages to fool the client and the server.


SSL

ICMP : TRUE
      ICMP (Internet control message protocol) is an extension of IP to send error messages

      Attacker can use it to send messages to fool the client and the server.

      The technique used is to forge ICMP (Internet control message protocol) packets to
          redirect traffic between  client and  host
            through the hijacker’s host.

      The hacker’s packets send error messages, indicating problems in processing packets through the original connection.
      This fools the server and client into routing through hijacker’s path instead.

ARP

FTP


-----------------------
