Which technology do SOAP services use to format information?


            PCI

            ISDN

            SATA

            XML  :   TRUE


Explanation:

Simple object access protocol (SOAP) :

    - lightweight & simple XML-based protocol
    - designed to exchange structured and type information on the web.

The XML envelope element is always the root element of the SOAP message in the XML schema.

A SOAP injection includes special characters such as  :

      - single quotes,
      - double quotes,
      - semicolons,
      and so on.

------------------------------

Which statement is TRUE regarding network firewalls preventing Web Application attacks?


        Network firewalls cannot prevent attacks because they are too complex to configure.

        Network firewalls can prevent attacks because they can detect malicious HTTP traffic.

        Network firewalls cannot prevent attacks because ports 80 and 443 must be kept opened. : TRUE

        Network firewalls can prevent attacks if they are properly configured.

------------------------------

While performing data validation of web content,
    a security technician is required to restrict malicious input.

Which of the following processes is an efficient way of restricting malicious input?


        Validate web content input for type, length, and range   : TRUE

        Validate web content input for query strings

        Validate web content input for extraneous queries

        Validate web content input with scanning tools

----------------------------

A developer for a company is tasked with creating a program that will allow customers to

      update their billing and shipping information.

The billing address field is limited to 50 characters.

What pseudo code would the developer use to avoid a buffer overflow attack on the billing address field?


      if (billingAddress = 50) {update field} else exit

      if (billingAddress != 50) {update field} else exit

      if (billingAddress <= 50) {update field} else exit : TRUE

      if (billingAddress >= 50) {update field} else exit


-------------------------

Which of the following provides an interface between end users and webservers?


        Database

        Demilitarized zone

        Web applications : TRUE

        Firewall

-------------------------

If your web application sets any cookie with a secure attribute, what does this mean?


        The cookie can not be accessed by JavaScript

        The cookie will not be sent cross-domain

        The client will send the cookie only over an HTTPS connection   : TRUE

        Cookies will be sent cross-domain

----------------------------

In which type of fuzz testing do the current data samples
        create new test data
        and the new test data again mutates to
                            generate further random data?


        None of the above

        Protocol-based

        Generation-based

        Mutation-based : TRUE


--------------------------------

In which type of fuzz testing does the

      protocol fuzzer

              send forged packets

    to the target application that is to be tested?


          None of the above

          Mutation-based

          Protocol-based : TRUE

          Generation-based

  Explanation:

  In protocol-based type of testing, the protocol fuzzer sends

      forged packets to the target application that is to be tested.

  This type of testing
      requires detailed knowledge of the protocol format being tested.
      involves
          writing a list of specifications into the fuzzer tool,
          performing a model-based test generation technique to go through all the listed specifications
          adding irregularities in the data contents, sequence, and so on.

--------------------------------------------

Which of the following is used to

  detect bugs and irregularities in web applications?


        d. Source code review             : TRUE

        b. Generation-based fuzz testing

        c. Protocol-based fuzz testing

        a. Mutation-based fuzz testing

-------------------------------------------

Which of the following is considered as a

          quality checking & assurance technique

  used to identify coding errors and security loopholes in web applications?


              Hash Stealing

              Fuzz Testing       : TRUE

              Session Hijacking

              Sandboxing

Explanation:

Web application fuzz testing (fuzzing) :

        - Black box testing method.
        - Quality Checking and Assurance technique
        - used to identify coding errors and security loopholes in web applications.
        - HUGE amounts of RANDOM DATA called “Fuzz” is 
                  - generated by the fuzz testing tools (Fuzzers)
                  - used against the target web application to discover vulnerabilities that can be exploited by various attacks.
