During a penetration test, a tester finds that the web application being analyzed is vulnerable to Cross Site Scripting (XSS).
 Which of the following conditions must be met to exploit this vulnerability?


          The session cookies do not have the HttpOnly flag set.   :  TRUE

          The web application does not have the secure flag set.

          The victim's browser must have ActiveX technology enabled.

          The victim user should not have an endpoint security solution

------------------------------------------------

A security analyst in an insurance company is assigned to
    test a new web application that will be used
        by clients to help them choose and apply for an insurance plan.
The analyst discovers that the application has been developed in

        ASP scripting language & it uses MSSQL as a database backend.

The analyst locates the application's search form and introduces the following code in the search input field:

IMG SRC=vbscript:msgbox("Vulnerable");> originalAttribute="SRC" originalPath="vbscript:msgbox("Vulnerable");>"

When the analyst submits the form, the browser returns a pop-up window that says “Vulnerable.”
Which web applications vulnerability did the analyst discover?


        SQL injection

        Cross-site request forgery

        Cross-site scripting        :  TRUE

        Command injection


-----------------------------------------------

An attacker has been successfully modifying the purchase price of items purchased on the company’s website.
The security administrators verify the webserver and Oracle database have not been compromised directly.
They have also verified the intrusion detection system (IDS) logs and found
  no attacks that could have caused this.

What is the most likely way the attacker has been able to modify the purchase price?


        By using cross site scripting

        By changing hidden form values  : TRUE

        By using SQL injection

        By utilizing a buffer overflow attack


----------------------------------------------

Which of the following is a web application that does not have the secure flag set and that is implemented by OWASP that is full of known vulnerabilities?


        WebScarab

        VULN_HTML

        WebGoat   : TRUE

        WebBugs


Explanation:

WebGoat

    web application
    implemented by OWASP
    does not have the secure flag set.

 This web application is kept deliberately insecure with full of known vulnerabilities to teach web application security lessons to all sorts of students.

-------------------------------------------------

Which of the following conditions must be given to
        allow a tester to exploit a

            Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF) vulnerable web application?


        The victim user must open a malicious link with an Internet Explorer prior to version 8.

        The victim user must open a malicious link with Firefox prior to version 3.

        The session cookies generated by the application do not have the HttpOnly flag set.

        The web application should not use random tokens. :  TRUE

In order to exploit a cross-site request forgery vulnerable web application, the web application should not use random tokens.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

An attacker identifies the kind of websites a target company/individual is frequently surfing and tests those particular websites to identify any possible vulnerabilities.

When the attacker identifies the vulnerabilities in the website,
    the attacker injects malicious script/code into the web application

          that can redirect the webpage and
                   download the malware onto the victim’s machine.

After infecting the vulnerable web application, the attacker waits for the victim to access the infected web application. What kind of an attack is this?


        Phishing attack

        Denial-of-service attack

        Jamming attack

        Water hole attack  : TRUE

  Explanation:

  In a watering hole attack, the attacker

          - identifies the kind of websites a target company/individual frequently surfs

          - tests those particular websites to identify any possible vulnerabilities.

          - When the attacker identifies the vulnerabilities in the website,
                - attacker injects malicious script/code into the web application that can redirect the webpage and download the malware onto the victim machine.
                After infecting the vulnerable web application, the attacker waits for the victim to access the infected web application.

                This attack is named as a watering hole attack since the attacker waits for the victim to fall into the trap, which is similar to a situation where a lion waits for its prey to arrive at waterhole to drink water.

                When the victim surfs through the infected website, the webpage redirects, leading to malware being downloaded onto the victim’s machine, compromising the machine and indeed compromising the network/organization.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Which of the following tool is a DNS Interrogation Tool?


          NetScan Tools Pro

          DIG   :             TRUE

          SandCat Browser

          Hping

Explanation:

Hping2 / Hping3:

    Hping2/Hping3 is a command-line-oriented network scanning and packet crafting tool for the TCP/IP protocol that sends ICMP echo requests and supports TCP, UDP, ICMP, and raw-IP protocols. It performs network security auditing, firewall testing, manual path MTU discovery, advanced traceroute, remote OS fingerprinting, remote uptime guessing, TCP/IP stacks auditing, and other functions.

DIG:

    DIG is the tool that can be used to perform DNS Interrogation. It can be used as a web-based equivalent of the Unix dig command.

NetScan Tools Pro:

    NetScanTools Pro is an integrated collection of internet information gathering and network troubleshooting utilities for Network Professionals.
    Research IPv4 addresses, IPv6 addresses, hostnames, domain names, email addresses and URLs automatically** or with manual tools.
    It is designed for the Windows operating system.

SandCat Browser: Sandcat is a

    lightweight multi-tabbed web browser
    packed with features for developers and pen-testers.
    The browser is built on top of Chromium, the same engine that powers the Google Chrome browser, and uses the Lua programming language to provide extensions and scripting support.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Which of the following automatically discover

    hidden content & functionality

            by parsing

              HTML form
              &
              client-side JavaScript requests and responses?


          Proxies

          Banners

          Web Spiders   : TRUE

          Firewalls


-----------------------------------------------------------------------
An attacker wants to exploit a webpage. From which of the following points does he start his attack process?


        Map the attack surface

        Identify entry points for user input    :   TRUE

        Identify server-side technologies

        Identify server-side functionality


  Explanation:

  The first step in analyzing a web app is to

        check for the application entry point,

                    which can later serve as a *
                                      gateway for attacks.

  One of the entry points includes the

                    - front-end web app  (that intercepts HTTP requests).

                    - user interfaces provided by webpages,

                    - service interfaces provided by web services,

                    - serviced components,

                    - .NET remoting components.

  Attackers should review the generated HTTP request to identify the user input entry points.



  -------------------------------------------------


An attacker tries to enumerate the
        username & password
              of an account named
                          “rini Mathew” on wordpress.com.

On the first attempt, the attacker tried to login as “rini.mathews,” which resulted in the login failure message “invalid email or username.”

On the second attempt, the attacker tried to login as “rinimathews,” which resulted in a message stating that the password entered for the username was incorrect, thus confirming that the username “rinimathews” exists.

What is the attack that is performed by the attacker?


        Username enumeration : TRUE

        Phishing

        Brute-forcing

        Man-in-the-middle
