There is a WEP encrypted wireless AP with no clients connected.
In order to crack the WEP key, a fake authentication needs to be performed.
Which of the following steps need to be performed by the attacker for generating fake authentication?


          Capture the IVs

          Ensure association of source MAC address with the AP : TRUE

          Set the wireless interface to monitor mode

          Use cracking tools

Explanation:

To break WEP encryption the attacker follows these steps:

? Start the wireless interface in monitor mode on the specific AP channel

In this step, the attacker sets the wireless interface to monitor mode.
The interface can listen to every packet in the air.
The attacker can select some packets for injection by listening to every packet available in the air.

? Test the injection capability of the wireless device to the AP

The attacker tests whether the wireless interface is within
    the range of the specified AP and whether it is capable of injecting packets to it.

? Use a tool such as aireplay-ng to do a fake authentication with the AP

The attacker ensures that the source MAC address is already associated,
so that the AP accepts the injected packets.
The injection will fail due to the lack of association with the AP.

? Start the Wi-Fi sniffing tool

The attacker captures the IVs generated by using tools such as
        Cain & Abel
        and
        airodump-ng
  with a BSSID filter to collect unique IVs.

? Start a Wi-Fi packet encryption tool such as aireplay-ng in
    ARP request replay mode to inject packets

To gain a large number of IVs in a short period,
    the attacker turns the aireplay-ng into ARP request replay mode,
          which listens for ARP requests
              and then re-injects them back into the network.
          The AP usually rebroadcasts packets generating a new IV.
So in order to gain a large number of IVs, the attacker selects the ARP request mode.

? Run a cracking tool such as Cain & Abel or aircrack-ng
Using cracking tools such as Cain & Abel or aircrack-ng the attacker can
      extract WEP encryption keys from the IVs.

-----------

During a wireless penetration test, a tester detects an AP using the WPA2 encryption.
Which of the following attacks should be used to obtain the key?


The tester must capture the WPA2 authentication handshake and then crack it. : TRUE

The tester cannot crack WPA2 because it is in full compliance with the IEEE 802.11i standard.

The tester must change the MAC address of the wireless network card and then use the AirTraf tool to obtain the key.

The tester must use the tool inSSIDer to crack it using the ESSID of the network.


Explanation:
An attacker may succeed in
    unauthorized access to the target network by trying various method such as
          launching various wireless attacks,
          placing rogue APs,
          evil twins, etc.

      The next step for the attacker is to
            crack the security imposed by
                the target wireless network.

      Generally, a Wi-Fi network uses
              WEP or WPA/WPA2 encryption for securing wireless communication.
      The attacker now tries to break the security of the target wireless network by cracking these encryptions systems.
      Let us see how an attacker cracks these encryption systems to breach wireless network security.

WPA encryption is less exploitable than WEP encryption.
However, an attacker can still
      - crack WPA/WPA2 by capturing the right type of packets.
The attacker can perform this offline and needs to be near the AP for a few moments in order to
      - capture the WPA/WPA2 authentication handshake.

-------------------

Which of the following availability attacks involve exploiting
      the CSMA/CA Clear Channel Assessment (CCA) mechanism
          to make a channel appear busy?


        - Denial-of-Service : TRUE
            Exploiting the CSMA/CA Clear Channel Assessment (CCA) mechanism to
                make a channel appear busy.

                (method : An adapter that supports CW Tx mode, with
                          low-level utility to invoke continuous transmissions)

        - Beacon Flood :
            Generating thousands of
                counterfeit 802.11 beacons to
                    make it hard for clients to
                          find a legitimate AP.                     (Tool :  FakeAP)

        - Routing Attack :
              Distributing routing information within the network.  (Method :  RIP protocol)

        - Authenticate Flood :
              Sending
                  - forged authenticates
                        or associates
                from random MACs to
                      fill a target AP's association table.       (AirJack, File2air, Macfld, void11)

--------------------

John is a pen tester working with an information security consultant based in Paris.
As part of a penetration testing assignment, he was asked to perform wireless penetration testing for a large MNC.
John knows that the company provides free Wi-Fi access to its employees on the company premises.
He sets up a rogue wireless access point with the same SSID as that of the company’s Wi-Fi network just outside the company premises.
He sets up this rogue access point using the tools that he has and hopes that the employees might connect to it.
What type of wireless confidentiality attack is John trying to do?


Evil twin AP:  (TRUE)
        ROGUE access point masquerading as a
              genuine Wi-Fi access point.
        Once a user connects to it,
              the attacker can intercept confidential information.


KRACK attack:

        KRACK attack stands for

                          Key Reinstallation Attack.

          This attack exploits the
                    flaws present in the

                      implementation of a  4-way handshake process in
                            WPA2 authentication protocol that is used to establish a
                                    connection between a
                                            device
                                            &
                                            Access Point (AP).


War Driving: Act of
              searching & exploiting
                    Wi-Fi wireless networks
                            while driving around a city or elsewhere.

WEP Cracking: It is a process of
                      capturing data to recover a
                                  WEP key using
                                    WEP cracking tools such as Aircrack-ng.

------------------

Posing as an authorized AP by beaconing the WLAN's SSID to lure users is known as __________.


Masquerading : Pretending to be an authorized user to gain access t o a system.

Honeypot Access Point : Setting an AP's SSID to be the same as that of a legitimate AP.

Man-in-the-Middle Attack : intercept TCP sessions or SSL/SSH tunnels.

Evil Twin AP : TRUE
                Posing as an authorized AP by beaconing the WLAN's SSID to lure users

----------------

In which of the following technique, an attacker
      draws symbols in public places to
            advertise open Wi-Fi networks?

            WarChalking: TRUE

                Draw symbols in public places to advertise open Wi-Fi networks.


            WarWalking: Attackers Walk around with
                                  Wi-Fi enabled laptops to detect open wireless networks.

            WarFlying: Attackers use
                            drones
                              to detect open wireless networks.

            WarDriving: Attackers
                              drive around with Wi-Fi enabled laptops
                                          to detect open wireless networks.

--------------
This application is a
          Wi-Fi security tool for mobile devices,
          works on both Root and Non-root devices,
          prevent ARP spoofing attacks such as
                          MITM attacks,
                            which are used by some applications such as WifiKill, dSploit, and sniffers.


Airbase-ng

WiFiGuard : TRUE
      Work on both
            Root devices
            &
            Non-root devices.

      This application can prevent ARP spoofing attacks such as
            MITM attacks,
              which are used by some applications such as
                      WifiKill,
                      dSploit,
                  and sniffers.

          o Non-root features: Gives information about the attack.
          o Root features: Active mode that restores the ARP table, Passive mode for static ARP table.

Wifi Inspector

inSSIDer


-------------------

Steven, a wireless network administrator, has just finished setting up his company’s wireless network.
He has enabled various security features such as
              changing the default SSID
              strong encryption

      on the company’s wireless router.

Steven decides to test the wireless network for
    confidentiality attacks to
          check whether an attacker can intercept information sent over wireless associations,
               whether sent in clear text or encrypted by Wi-Fi protocols.
  As a part of testing, he tries to capture and decode unprotected application traffic to
      obtain potentially sensitive information using
            hardware or software tools such as
                    Ettercap, Kismet, Wireshark, etc.
  What type of wireless confidentiality attack is Steven trying to do?


Eavesdropping : TRUE

    Capturing and decoding unprotected application traffic to obtain potentially sensitive information.
    bsd-airtools, Ethereal, Ettercap, Kismet, commercial analyzers

Evil twin AP :

    Posing as an authorized AP by beaconing the WLAN's SSID to lure users.
    CqureAP, HostAP, OpenAP

Masquerading :

    Pretending to be an authorized user to gain access to a system.
    Stealing login IDs and passwords, bypassing authentication mechanisms

WEP Key Cracking :

    Capturing data to recover a WEP key using brute force or Fluhrer-Mantin-Shamir (FMS) cryptanalysis.
    Aircrack, AirSnort, chopchop, WepAttack, WepDecrypt

--------------------

Kenneth, a professional penetration tester, was hired by the XYZ Company to
  conduct wireless network penetration testing.
Kenneth proceeds with the standard steps of wireless penetration testing.

He tries to
  collect lots of initialization vectors (IVs) using
      the injection method to
          crack the WEP key.

He uses the aircrack-ng tool to
        capture the IVs from a specific AP.

Which of the following aircrack-ng commands will help Kenneth to do this?


        airmon-ng start wifi0 9

        aireplay-ng -9 -e teddy -a 00:14:6C:7E:40:80 ath0

        aireplay-ng -1 0 -e teddy -a 00:14:6C:7E:40:80 -h 00:0F:B5:88:AC:82 ath0

        airodump-ng -c 9 -- bssid 00:14:6C:7E:40:80 -w output ath0     : TRUE


Explanation:

Start airodump-ng to capture the IVs:

The purpose of this step is to
      capture the IVs generated.

This step starts airodump-ng to
      capture the IVs from the specific AP.

Open another console session to capture the generated IVs. Then enter:

          airodump-ng -c 9 --bssid 00:14:6C:7E:40:80 -w output ath0

Where:

-c 9 is the channel for the wireless network
--bssid 00:14:6C:7E:40:80 is the AP MAC address. This eliminates extraneous traffic.
-w capture is file name prefix for the file which will contain the IVs.
ath0 is the interface name.

/////////////////////////

Test Wireless Device Packet Injection:
          The purpose of this step ensures that
                            your card is within distance of your AP
                        and can inject packets to it.
          Enter:

          aireplay-ng -9 -e teddy -a 00:14:6C:7E:40:80  ath0

Where:

-9 means injection test
-e teddy is the wireless network name
-a 00:14:6C:7E:40:80 is the AP MAC address
ath0 is the wireless interface name

////////////////////

Start the wireless card: Enter the following command to
      start the wireless card on channel 9 in monitor mode:

                airmon-ng start wifi0 9
                
Substitute the channel number that your AP runs on for “9” in the command above.
/////////////////////


Use aireplay-ng to do a fake authentication with the AP:

        In order for an AP to accept a packet, the source MAC address must already be associated.
        If the source MAC address you are injecting is not associated then
                        AP ignores the packet
                        AP sends out a “DeAuthentication” packet in cleartext.
        In this state,
            no new IVs are created because
                  AP is ignoring all the injected packets.

To associate with an AP, use fake authentication:
                    aireplay-ng -1 0 -e teddy -a 00:14:6C:7E:40:80 -h 00:0F:B5:88:AC:82 ath0
Where:
-1 means fake authentication
0 reassociation timing in seconds
-e teddy is the wireless network name
-a 00:14:6C:7E:40:80 is the AP MAC address
-h 00:0F:B5:88:AC:82 is our card MAC address
ath0 is the wireless interface name

----------------------------------------------------------------

Which of the following Wi-Fi discovery tools facilitates detection of Wireless LANs using the 802.11a/b/g
  WLAN standards and is commonly used for
      wardriving,
      verifying network configurations,
      finding locations with poor coverage and
      detecting rouge APs?


NetStumbler : TRUE

    Network Stumbler
    Tool for Windows that facilitates
            detection of Wireless LANs using the 802.11b, 802.11a and 802.11g WLAN standards.

    The program is commonly used for:

                - Wardriving
                - Verifying network configurations
                - Finding locations with Tpoor coverage in a WLAN
                - Detecting causes of wireless interference
                - Detecting unauthorized ("rogue") access points
                - Aiming directional antennas for long-haul WLAN links

AirCrack-NG :

    complete suite of tools to assess WiFi network security.
    Focuses on different areas of WiFi security such as,
        - monitoring,
        - packet capture
        - export of data to text files
        for further processing by third party tools.

WeFi :
    free Windows utility
    Helps you connect to open Wi-Fi hotspots.
     Sifting through the dozens of available hot spots
        sucks up valuable time that you could be using to work.


WifiScanner

-------------------
