Donald works as a network administrator with ABCSecurity, Inc., a small IT based firm in San Francisco. He was asked to set up a wireless network in the company premises which provides strong encryption to protect the wireless network against attacks. After doing some research, Donald decided to use a wireless security protocol which has the following features:

Provides stronger data protection and network access control
Uses AES encryption algorithm for strong wireless encryption]
Counter Mode Cipher Block Chaining Message Authentication Code Protocol (CCMP)
Which of the following wireless security protocol did Donald decide to use?



WPA2 : TRUE

Explanation:
WPA2 (Wi-Fi Protected Access 2) Encryption: WPA2 (Wi-Fi Protected Access 2) is a
security protocol used to safeguard the wireless networks and
has replaced WPA technology in 2006.
It is compatible with the 802.11i standard and supports
many security features that WPA does not support.
WPA2 introduces the use of
      the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) FIPS 140-2-compliant
        -  AES encryption algorithm, a strong wireless encryption, and
        -  CCMP Counter Mode
                Cipher Block Chaining
                Message Authentication Code
                Protocol .

    Provides :
      - stronger data protection
      - network access control.

Gives High level of security to
Wi-Fi connections, so that
      -> only authorized users can access it.
////////////////
WPA has better data encryption security than WEP, as messages pass through a
      Message Integrity Check (MIC) using the Temporal Key Integrity Protocol (TKIP).
It uses a Temporal Key Integrity Protocol (TKIP) that utilizes

        RC4 stream cipher encryption
              with
      128-bit keys and 64-bit MIC integrity check

  to provide stronger encryption, and authentication.

////////////////
WEP utilizes an encryption mechanism at the data link layer for
        minimizing unauthorized access on the WLAN.

This is accomplished by
        encrypting data with
              symmetric RC4 encryption algorithm—a cryptographic mechanism used to defend against threats.

/////////////
TKIP:
    Security protocol used in WPA as a replacement for WEP.

----------------------------

Which of the following Encryption techniques is used in WEP?


RC4 : TRUE

TKIP

DES

AES


Explanation:
WEP utilizes an encryption mechanism at
    the data link layer for
        minimizing unauthorized access on the WLAN.

This is accomplished by encrypting data with
      the symmetric RC4 encryption algorithm—a cryptographic mechanism used to defend against threats.

TKIP, AES and DES are some of the other types of encryptions.

-----------------

Which of the following Encryption technique is used in WPA?


RSA : type of encryption

AES : type of encryption

DES : type of encryption

TKIP : Temporal Key Integrity Protocol used by WPA.

    WPA has better data encryption security than WEP,
            as messages pass through
                a Message Integrity Check (MIC) using
                      the Temporal Key Integrity Protocol (TKIP).

      WPA Uses a Temporal Key Integrity Protocol (TKIP) that
            utilizes
                  - 128-bit keys    RC4 stream cipher encryption
                  - 64-bit          MIC integrity check

            to provide :
                  - stronger encryption,
                  - stronger authentication.

------------------

Which of the following does not provide cryptographic integrity protection?


WPA2

WPA

TKIP

WEP    : WEP does not provide cryptographic integrity protection.
         By capturing two packets, an attacker can
              - flip a bit in the encrypted stream
              - modify the checksum
              so that the packet is accepted.
---------------------------------

Which of the following protocol encapsulates the EAP within an encrypted and authenticated Transport Layer Security (TLS) tunnel?

PEAP: TRUE
  Protocol that encapsulates the EAP within
              an encrypted & authenticated
                    Transport Layer Security (TLS) tunnel.

RADIUS: Centralized authentication & authorization
            management system.

LEAP: Proprietary version of
          EAP
            developed by Cisco.

CCMP: It is an encryption protocol used in WPA2 for
            - stronger encryption
            - stonger authentication.
------------------------------------

Which of the following consists of 40/104 bit Encryption Key Length?


WEP : TRUE

WPA2

RSA

WPA

The length of the WEP and the secret key are:
?        64-bit WEP uses a 40-bit key
?        128-bit WEP uses a 104-bit key size
?        256-bit WEP uses 232-bit key size
WEP normally uses a
        40-bit
          or
        104-bit
    encryption key,

        whereas

TKIP protocol in WPA  uses
      128-bit keys for
          each packet.
      The message integrity check (MIC) for WPA avoids
                the chances of the attacker
                      changing
                          or        the packets.
                      resending
----------------
Which of the following includes mandatory support for Counter Mode with Cipher Block Chaining Message Authentication Code Protocol (CCMP)?


TKIP

WPA2 : TRUE
       Wi-Fi Protected Access 2
       security protocol

       Used to safeguard  wireless networks

       Replaced WPA technology in 2006.
       Compatible with the 802.11i standard

       Supports many security features that WPA does not support.
       WPA2 introduces the use of
             the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) FIPS 140-2-compliant
               -  AES encryption algorithm, a strong wireless encryption, and
               -  CCMP Counter Mode
                       Cipher Block Chaining
                       Message Authentication Code
                       Protocol .

           Provides :
             - stronger data protection
             - network access control.

       Gives High level of security to
       Wi-Fi connections, so that
             -> only authorized users can access it.

WEP

WPA

-------------

Which of the following is a standard for
        Wireless Local Area Networks (WLANs) that provides
                  improved encryption for networks that use
                          802.11a, 802.11b, and 802.11g standards?


802.11d

802.11i : TRUE

802.11n

802.11e

Explanation:
802.11n: The IEEE 802.11n is a revision that enhances the earlier 802.11g standards with multiple-input multiple-output (MIMO) antennas. It works in both the 2.4 GHz and 5 GHz bands. This is an IEEE industry standard for Wi-Fi wireless local network transportations. Digital Audio Broadcasting (DAB) and Wireless LAN use OFDM.
802.11i: The IEEE 802.11i standard improves WLAN security by implementing new encryption protocols such as TKIP and AES. It is a standard for wireless local area networks (WLANs) that provides improved encryption for networks that use the popular 802.11a, 802.11b (which includes Wi-Fi) and 802.11g standards.
802.11d: The 802.11d is an enhanced version of 802.11a and 802.11b. The standard supports regulatory domains. The particulars of this standard can be set at the media access control (MAC) layer.
802.11e: It is used for real-time applications such as voice, VoIP, and video. To ensure that these time-sensitive applications have the network resources they need, 802.11e defines mechanisms to ensure Quality of Service (QoS) to Layer 2 of the reference model, the medium-access layer, or MAC.

-------------
Which of the following cryptographic algorithms is used by CCMP?


TKIP

DES

RC4

AES : TRUE

CCMP is an encryption protocol used in
      WPA2 for stronger encryption and authentication.
WPA2 is an upgrade to WPA using

          AES
    and
          CCMP

    for wireless data encryption.

-----------------
