Which of the following is a hijacking technique where an attacker masquerades as a trusted host to conceal his identity, hijack browsers or websites, or gain unauthorized access to a network?



        IP address spoofing : TRUE

        Port-scanning

        Source routing

        Firewalking


Explanation:

IP address spoofing
    - hijacking technique
    - attacker masquerades as a trusted host to
            conceal his identity,
            spoof a website,
            hijack browsers, or
            gain unauthorized access to a network.
    - attacker creates IP packets by using a forged IP address
    - access the system or network without authorization.
    - Attackers modify
          - address information in the IP packet header
          and
          - source address bits field
      to bypass the firewall.

    The attacker spoofs the messages; therefore, the destination host feels that it has come from a reliable source.
    Thus, the attacker succeeds in impersonating others’ identities with the help of IP spoofing.

----------------------------------

An attacker sends an e-mail containing a
    malicious Microsoft office document
      to target WWW/FTP servers

    and embed Trojan horse files as
      software installation files,
      mobile phone software, and so on

to lure a user to access them.

Identify by which method the attacker is trying to bypass the firewall.


Bypassing firewall through content : TRUE

Bypassing firewall through external systems

Bypassing WAF using XSS attack

Bypassing firewall through MITM attack


Explanation:
Bypassing firewall through external systems: Attackers can bypass firewall restrictions of target networks from an external system that can access the internal network.

Bypassing firewall through MITM attack: In MITM attacks, attackers make use of DNS servers and routing techniques to bypass firewall restrictions.

Bypassing firewall through content: In this method, the attacker sends the content containing malicious code to the user and tricks user to open it so that the malicious code can be executed.

Bypassing WAF using XSS attack: XSS attack exploits vulnerabilities that occur while processing input parameters of the end users and the server responses in a web application.


----------------------------------------------------

Which term is used to refer service announcements provided by services in response to connection requests and often carry vendor’s version of information?



      Banner     : TRUE

      Port

      Scanning phase

      Network discovery phase


  Explanation:

  Port: Through ports computers send or accept information from network resources.

  Network discovery phase and a scanning phase are two phases involved in Firewalking.

  Banner is used to refer to SERVICE ANNOUNCEMENTS
                provided by services
                    in response to connection requests

                        and often carry vendor’s VERSION of information.


------------------------------------------------------------------

A pentester gains access to a Windows application server and
needs to determine the settings of the built-in Windows firewall.
Which command would be used?



      Net firewall show config

      Ipconfig firewall show config

      Netsh firewall show config : TRUE

      WMIC firewall show config

--------------------------------------------------------

Firewalk has just completed the second phase (the scanning phase) and a technician receives the output shown below.

What conclusions can be drawn based on these scan results?

       TCP port 21—no response
       TCP port 22—no response
       TCP port 23—Time-to-live exceeded



          The lack of response from ports 21 and 22 indicate that those services are not running on the destination server.

          The scan on port 23 was able to make a connection to the destination host prompting the firewall to respond with a TTL error.

          The scan on port 23 passed through the filtering device. This indicates that port 23 was not blocked at the firewall.        : TRUE

          The firewall itself is blocking ports 21 through 23 and a service is listening on port 23 of the target host.

  Explanation:

  Since the output shown to the technician contains   TCP port 21—no response, TCP port 22—no response, and TCP port 23—Time-to-live exceeded, this means that the

        traffic through port 23 has
              passed through the firewall filtering

                which indicates that the

                          firewall does not block port 23.


-------------------------------------------------

Check Point's FireWall-1 listens to which of the following TCP ports?


1745

1080

1072

259 : TRUE


Explanation:
Some firewalls will uniquely identify themselves using simple port scans.

For example,

    Check Point's FireWall-1 listens on TCP ports 256, 257, 258, and 259,

    Microsoft's Proxy Server usually listens on TCP ports 1080 and 1745.


--------------------------------------------------------


Which method of firewall identification has the following characteristics:

uses TTL values to determine gateway ACL filters
maps networks by analyzing IP packet response
probes ACLs on packet filtering routers/firewalls using the same method as trace-routing
sends TCP or UDP packets into the firewall with TTL value is one hop greater than the targeted firewall



      Banner Grabbing

      Port Scanning

      Firewalking : TRUE

      Source Routing


Explanation:

Port scanning:

    It is used to
            identify
                open ports
                services running on ports.
    Finding open ports is an attacker’s first step to access the target system.
    To do so, the attacker systematically scans the target’s ports to identify the version of services, which helps in finding vulnerabilities in these services.

Banner grabbing:

    It is a simple method of FINGERPRINTING that helps in detecting
            the VENDOR of a firewall
            the firmware's version.

Source Routing:

    Qender of the packet designates the

                  route (partially or entirely)

            that a packet should take through the network in such a way
                    that the designated route should
                                bypass the firewall node.

Firewalking

    method of collecting information about remote networks behind firewalls.

    uses TTL values to determine gateway ACL filters

    map networks by analyzing IP packet response.

    probes ACLs on packet filtering routers/firewalls using the same method as

            tracerouting.

    sends TCP or UDP packets into the firewall with

            TTL value is one hop greater than the targeted firewall.

    If the packet makes it through the gateway, the system forwards it to the next hop,
          where the TTL equals one
                and
          prompts an ICMP error message at the point of rejection with a "TTL exceeded in transit" message.

    This method helps locate a firewall, additional probing permits fingerprinting and identification of vulnerabilities.


-------------------------------------

Which of the following tools is used to

      execute commands of choice by

                  tunneling them inside the payload of

                            ICMP echo packets if

                                ICMP is allowed through a firewall?


          Loki :  TRUE

          HTTPTunnel

          AckCmd

          Anonymizer


Explanation:

Anonymizer:

        Anonymous web-surfing sites help to browse the Internet anonymously and unblock blocked sites.

Loki

      ICMP tunneling is used to execute commands of choice by tunneling them inside the payload of ICMP echo packets.

AckCmd (http://ntsecurity.nu)

      use ACK tunneling.

HTTPTunnel

      uses technique of tunneling traffic across TCP port 80 to bypass firewall.


--------------------------


Which of the following is a two-way HTTP tunneling software tool that allows

    HTTP, HTTPS, and SOCKS tunneling

          of any TCP communication between any client–server systems?


          Bitvise

          Loki

          Secure Pipes

          Super network tunnel : TRUE


Explanation:

Super network tunnel

    - 2-way HTTP tunneling software
    - connects 2 computers utilizing

          - HTTP-tunnel client
          and
          - HTTP-tunnel server.

    - can bypass any firewall to surf the web, use IM applications, games, and so on.

    - integrates SocksCap function along with

                    bidirectional HTTP tunneling
                    &
                    remote control
        to simplify the configuration.


Bitvise
&
Secure Pipes :

      SSH tunneling Tools


Loki

      ICMP tunneling tool.

------------------------------------------------------------


Which feature of Secure Pipes tool open application communication ports to remote servers without opening those ports to public networks?


          SOCKS proxies

          Remote backwards

          Remote forwards

          Local forwards

              open application communication ports to remote servers
                        without opening those ports to public networks.

              brings the

                  security of VPN communication

                        to clients & servers

                            on an ad hoc basis without the configuration and management hassle.

--------------------------------
