
The use of alert thresholding in an IDS can
  reduce the volume of repeated alerts,
  but introduces which of the following vulnerabilities?


          The IDS will not distinguish among packets originating from different sources.

          Thresholding interferes with the IDS’ ability to reassemble fragmented packets.

          Network packets are dropped if the volume exceeds the threshold.

          An attacker, working slowly enough, can evade detection by the IDS. : TRUE

Explanation:
An intrusion detection system (IDS) is a security software or hardware device used to monitor, detect, and protect networks or systems from malicious activities;
it alerts the concerned security personnel immediately upon detecting intrusions.

Alert thresholding :

    set of rules that detects suspicious activities based on
            - access attempts
            - time intervals.

Users can customize the default threshold according to their requirements.

Setting threshold is difficult because

  if threshold is set too high, a user

      may miss few key packets

  If thresholds is set too low, analyst

      may see many false-positives.


----------------------------------------------------

Eric, a professional hacker, is trying to perform a

      SQL injection attack on the back-end database system of the InfomationSEC, Inc.

During the information gathering process, he identifies that

      MYSQL server is the back-end database engine used.

Eric has tried various SQL injection attack attempts based on the information gathered but all of his attempts failed.

Later, he discovered that IPS system
    is blocking all the SQL injection attack attempts.

Eric decided to bypass the IPS using
    string concatenation IPS evasion technique
        where he needs to
            - break the SQL query into a number of small pieces
        and
            - concatenates the SQL query end-to-end.

Which of the following string concatenation operator Eric need to use in the SQL query to concatenate the SQL query end-to-end?


        “+” operator

        “||” operator

        “concat(,)” operator    : TRUE

        “&” operator


Explanation:

“+” operator: This operator is used to concatenate the SQL strings in

              MS SQL database.

“||” operator: This operator is used to concatenate the SQL strings in

              Oracle database.

“concat(,)” operator: This operator is used to concatenate the SQL strings in

              MySQL database.

“&” operator: This operator is used to concatenate the SQL strings in

              MS Access database.


---------------------------------------------------
When analyzing the IDS logs, the system administrator notices connections from outside of the LAN have been sending packets where
      the source IP address & destination IP address are the same.

However, no alerts have been sent via email or logged in the IDS.
Which type of an alert is this?


        False positive

        True negative

        False negative : TRUE

        True positive


----------------------------------------------------

Michel, a professional hacker, is trying to perform an SQL injection attack on the MS SQL database system of the CityInfo, Inc. by

      bypassing the signature-based IDS.

He tried various IDS evasion techniques and finally succeeded with one where
      - he breaks the SQL query into a number of small pieces
  and
      - uses the + sign to join SQL query end to end.

Which of the following IDS evasion techniques he uses to bypass the signature-based IDS?


          String concatenation : TRUE

          Char encoding

          Hex encoding

          URL encoding

Explanation:

String concatenation:

    breaks SQL statement into
          a number of pieces
              and
    concatenation breaks up SQL keywords
          to evade the IDS.

Char encoding:

    uses char() function to
          replace common injection variables
              present in the SQL statement to evade the IDS.

Hex encoding:
    uses hexadecimal encoding to
          replace common injection variables
                present in the SQL statement to evade the IDS.

URL encoding:
    uses online URL encoding to
              encode SQL statement to bypass the IDS.
---------------------------------------------------------------

When analyzing the IDS logs, the system administrator noticed an alert was logged when the external router was accessed from the administrator’s computer to update the router configuration. What type of an alert is this?


False-positive : TRUE

True-positive

True-negative

False-negative


----------------------------------------------------------

A network administrator received an administrative alert at 3:00 a.m. from the intrusion detection system.
The alert was generated because a
    large number of packets were coming into the network over ports 20 and 21.

During analysis, there were no signs of attack on the FTP servers. How should the administrator understand this situation?




          False negatives

          False positives : TRUE

          True positives

          True negatives



-----------------------------------------------------

Which evasion technique is used by attackers to encode the attack packet payload in such a way that the destination host can only decode the packet but not the IDS?


        Fragmentation Attack

        Obfuscation : TRUE

        Session splicing

        Unicode Evasion

---------------------------------------

How many bit checksum is used by the TCP protocol for error checking of the header and data and to ensure that communication is reliable?


        15-bit

        16-bit : TCP protocol uses 16-bit checksums for error checking of the header and data and to ensure that communication is reliable. It adds a checksum to every transmitted segment that is checked at the receiving end.

        13-bit

        14-bit

------------------------------

An attacker hides the shellcode by
    - encrypting it with an unknown encryption algorithm
    - including the decryption code as part of the attack packet.

      =>  He encodes the payload
        & then places a decoder before the payload.

Identify the type of attack executed by attacker.


        Preconnection SYN

        Post-Connection SYN

        Polymorphic Shellcode : TRUE

        ASCII Shellcode

Explanation:

The polymorphic shellcode attacks include

          multiple signatures,

  making it difficult to detect the signature.

Attackers encode the payload using some technique
& then place a decoder before the payload.

=> As a result,

        shellcode is completely rewritten

                      each time it is sent

                            for evading detection.

In ASCII shellcode attack,
      IDS is bypassed by
                commonly enforced character restrictions
                      within string input code,

whereas preconnection SYN & postconnection SYN are

        type of desynchronization attack.

---------------------------------


Which NETWORK-LEVEL evasion method is used to bypass IDS where an attacker

      splits the attack traffic in too many packets

            so that no single packet triggers the IDS?


        Fragmentation attack

        Unicode evasion

        Session splicing : TRUE

        Overlapping fragments

Explanation:

SESSION SPLICING :

      - IDS evasion technique
      - exploits how some IDSs
                  do not
                    reconstruct sessions
                        before pattern-matching the data.
      - network-level evasion method
      - used to bypass IDS
      - splits the attack traffic in too many packets
      - no single packet triggers the IDS.
      - divides data into the packets into small portions of bytes
         => evades "string match" while delivering the data
      -  deliver the data into several small-sized packets.

OVERLAPPING FRAGMENTS & FRAGMENTATION ATTACK evade IDS by using

        fragments of packet,


whereas in UNICODE EVASION it is done by

        exploiting unicode characters.

------------------------------
