Least privilege is a security concept, which requires that a user is …


Given root or administrative privileges.

Trusted to keep all data and access to that data under their sole control.

Given privileges equal to everyone else in the department.

Limited to those functions which are required to do the job. : True

        Least privilege refers to the process of providing users with sufficient access privilege that allows them to perform
                 - only their assigned task
                 - and not more than that
        to ensure information security.

-----------

What is the best defense against a privilege escalation vulnerability?

Run services with least privileged accounts and implement multifactor authentication and authorization. : TRUE

Never place executables in write-protected directories.

Review user roles and administrator privileges for maximum utilization of automation services.

Never perform debugging using bounds checkers and stress tests and increase the amount of code that runs with particular privilege.

Explanation:
The following are the best countermeasures to defend against privilege escalation:

              Restrict the interactive logon privileges
              Use encryption technique to protect sensitive data
              Run users and applications on the least privileges
              Reduce the amount of code that runs with particular privilege
              Implement multi-factor authentication and authorization
              Perform debugging using bounds checkers and stress tests
              Run services as unprivileged accounts
              Test operating system and application coding errors and bugs thoroughly
              Implement a privilege separation methodology to limit the scope of programming errors and bugs
              Change UAC settings to “Always Notify”, so that it increases the visibility of the user when UAC elevation is requested
              Restrict users from writing files to the search paths for applications
              Continuously monitor file system permissions using auditing tools
              Reduce the privileges of user accounts and groups so that only legitimate administrators can make service changes
              Use whitelisting tools to identify and block malicious software that changes file, directory, and service permissions
              Use fully qualified paths in all the Windows applications
              Ensure that all executables are placed in write-protected directories
              In MAC operating systems, prevent plist files from being altered by users making them read-only
              Block unwanted system utilities or software that may be used to schedule tasks
              Patch and update the web servers regularly

------------

In which of the following techniques does an unauthorized user try to access the resources,
functions, and other privileges that belong to the authorized user who has similar access permissions?

Horizontal Privilege Escalation:
      the unauthorized user tries to access
            the resources, functions, and other privileges
       that belong to the authorized user
            who has similar access permissions.
      For instance, online banking user A can easily access user B’s bank account.


Kerberos Authentication
        Kerberos is a network authentication protocol
        provides strong authentication for client/server applications by using
              secret-key cryptography.
        provides mutual authentication, in that
              both  server &  user verify each other’s identity.
        Messages sent through Kerberos protocol are protected against
              - replay attacks
              - eavesdropping.

Rainbow table attack
        type of cryptography attack
        Attacker uses a rainbow table for reversing cryptographic hash functions.
        Attack uses the cryptanalytic time memory trade-off technique, which requires less time than some other techniques.
        It uses already-calculated information stored in memory to crack the cryptography.
        In the rainbow table attack, the attacker creates a table of all
              possible passwords & their respective hash values,
                  known as a rainbow table, in advance.

Vertical Privilege Escalation:
       Unauthorized user tries to gain access to the resources and functions of
                  the user with higher privileges, such as application or site administrators.
       For example, someone performing online banking can access the site using administrative functions.

----------

Which of the following operating systems allows loading of weak dylibs dynamically that is exploited by attackers to place a malicious dylib in the specified location?


OS X :
            OS X provides several legitimate methods, such as setting the DYLD_INSERT_LIBRARIES environment variable, which are user specific.
            These methods
                    force the loader to load malicious libraries automatically into a target running process.
            OS X allows the loading of weak dylibs (dynamic library) dynamically, which allows an attacker to place a malicious dylib in the specified location.

Linux

Unix

Android

------------

Which of the following vulnerability repositories is available online and allows attackers access to information about various software vulnerabilities?




https://www.tarasco.org

http://project-rainbowcrack.com

http://foofus.net

http://www.securityfocus.com : TRUE

Explanation:
Attackers search for any vulnerabilities on exploit sites such as
        Exploit Database (https://www.exploit-db.com),
        Security Focus (http://www.securityfocus.com), and
        Zero Day Initiative (http://zerodayinitiative.com)

If a vulnerable component is identified, the attacker customizes the exploit as required and executes the attack.
Successful exploitation allows attacker to cause serious data loss or takeover the control of servers.
Attacker generally uses exploit sits to
   - identify the web application exploits
or - performs vulnerability scanning using tools like Nessus and GFI LanGuard, to identify the existing vulnerable components.

http://foofus.net is an advanced security services forum that provides various tools for cyber security.

http://project-rainbowcrack.com provides RainbowCrack software used for cracking password hashes with rainbow tables.

https://www.tarasco.org is a website that contains security-related tools and published exploit codes.

-------------

Which of the following vulnerabilities allows attackers to trick a processor to exploit speculative execution to read restricted data?

Spectre vulnerability:
      Spectre vulnerability is found in many modern processors
                  such as AMD, ARM, Intel, Samsung, and Qualcomm processors.
      This vulnerability leads to tricking a processor
                  to exploit speculative execution to read restricted data.
      The modern processors implement speculative execution
                  to predict the future
              and to complete the execution faster.

Meltdown vulnerability:
      This is found in all the Intel processors and ARM processors deployed by Apple.
      This vulnerability leads to tricking a process to access out-of-bounds memory by exploiting
              CPU optimization mechanisms such as speculative execution.

Dylib hijacking: This allows an attacker to inject a malicious dylib in one of the primary directories
                and simply load the malicious dylib at runtime.

DLL hijacking: In DLL hijacking attackers place a malicious DLL in the application directory;
               the application will execute the malicious DLL in place of the real DLL.

-------------

Which of the following techniques do attackers use
to escalate privileges in  Windows OS?


Plist Modification

Launch Daemon

Application Shimming : TRUE
                    The Windows OS uses
                        Windows application compatibility framework
                          called "Shim"
                              to provide compatibility between
                                    the older and newer versions of Windows.

                    An attacker can use these shims to perform different attacks such as
                            disabling Windows defender,
                            privilege escalation,
                            installing backdoors, and so on.

Setuid and Setgid

------------

Which of the following techniques allows attackers to inject malicious script on a web server
to maintain persistent access and escalate privileges?

Scheduled Task

Launch daemon

Web Shell : TRUE

Access Token Manipulation

Explanation:

Scheduled task:
      The Windows operating system includes utilities such as “at” and “schtasks.”
      A user with administrator privileges can use
                    these utilities in conjunction with the task scheduler
      to schedule programs or scripts that can be executed at a particular date and time.
      If a user provides proper authentication,
                    he can also schedule a task from a remote system using RPC.
      An attacker can use this technique to :
              execute malicious programs at system startup,
              maintain persistence,
              perform remote execution,
              escalate privileges, etc.

Web shell:
          A web shell is a web-based script that allows access to a web server.
          Web shells can be created in all the operating systems like Windows, Linux, MacOS, and OS X.
          Attackers create web shells to inject malicious script on a web server to maintain persistent access and escalate privileges.
          Attackers use a web shell as a backdoor to gain access and control a remote server.
          Generally, a web shell runs under current user’s privileges.
          Using a web shell an attacker can perform privilege escalation by exploiting local system vulnerabilities.
          After escalating the privileges, an attacker can
                install malicious software,
                change user permissions,
                add or remove users,
                steal credentials,
                read emails, etc.

Launch daemon:
          At the time of MacOS and OS X booting process, launchd is executed to complete the system initialization process.
          Parameters for each launch-on-demand system-level daemon
            found in /System/Library/LaunchDaemonsand/Library/LaunchDaemons
                  are loaded using launchd.

          These daemons have property list files (plist) that
                  are linked to executables
                      that run at the time of booting.

          Attackers can create and install a new launch daemon, which can be configured
                      to execute at boot-up time using launchd or launchctl
                              to load plist into concerned directories.

          The weak configurations allow an attacker to
                      alter the existing launch daemon’s executable to
                            maintain persistence or to escalate privileges.

Access token manipulation:
          In Windows operating system, access tokens are used to determine the security context of a process or thread.
          These tokens include the access profile (identity and privileges) of a user associated with a process.
          After a user is authenticated, the system produces an access token. Every process the user executes makes use of this access token.
          The system verifies this access token when a process is accessing a secured object.


--------------------

Which of the following vulnerabilities is found in
all the Intel processors and ARM processors deployed by Apple (and others)
and leads to tricking a process to access out of bounds memory by
exploiting CPU optimization mechanisms such as speculative execution?

Dylib Hijacking

Meltdown : TRUE

DLL Hijacking

Privilege escalation

Explanation:

Privilege escalation:
          In a privilege escalation attack,
                  attackers first gain access to the network using a
                            non-admin user account,
                  and then try to gain administrative privileges.

          Attackers take advantage of
                            design flaws,
                            programming errors,
                            bugs,
                            configuration oversights in the OS and software application
          to gain administrative access to the network and its associated applications.

Dylib hijacking:
            OS X similar to windows is vulnerable to dynamic library attacks.
            OS X provides several legitimate methods such as
                        setting the DYLD_INSERT_LIBRARIES environment variable,
                              which are user specific.
            These methods force the loader to
                            load malicious libraries automatically
                                    into a target running process.
            OS X allows loading of weak dylibs (dynamic library) dynamically, which allows an attacker to
                      place a malicious dylib in the specified location.

            In many cases, the loader searches for dynamic libraries in multiple paths.
            This helps an attacker to inject a malicious dylib in one of the primary directories and simply load the malicious dylib at runtime.

            Attackers can take advantage of such methods to perform various malicious activities such as
                      - stealthy persistence,
                      - run-time process injection,
                      - bypassing security software,
                      - bypassing Gatekeeper, etc.

Meltdown:
          Meltdown vulnerability is found in
                  all the Intel processors and ARM processors deployed by Apple.

          This vulnerability leads to tricking a process
                to access out of bounds memory by
                    exploiting CPU optimization mechanisms such as
                          speculative execution.

          For example, an attacker requests to access an illegal memory location.
                       He/she sends a second request to conditionally read a valid memory location.
                       In this case, the processor using speculative execution will
                                    complete evaluating the result for both requests
                                          before checking the first request.
          When the processor checks that
                  the first request is invalid,
                        it rejects both the requests
                              after checking privileges.
          Even though the processor rejects both the requests,
                  the result of both the requests
                        remains in the cache memory.
          Now the attacker sends
                    multiple valid requests
                            to access out of bounds` memory locations.

DLL hijacking:
              Most Windows applications do not use the fully qualified path
                      when loading an external DLL library;
              instead, they first search the directory
                      from which they have been loaded.

              Taking this as an advantage,
                      if attackers can place a malicious DLL in the application directory,
                                  the application will execute the malicious DLL in place of the real DLL.

------------------------------------------------

Which of the following techniques is used to place an executable in a particular path in such a way
that it will be executed by the application in place of the legitimate target?


Scheduled Task

Application Shimming

File System Permissions Weakness

Path Interception : TRUE
                    method of placing
                            an executable
                    in a particular path in such a way
                                that it will be executed by the application in place of the legitimate target.
                    Attackers can take advantage of several flaws or misconfigurations to perform path interception like
                                  - unquoted paths (service paths and shortcut paths),
                                  - path environment variable misconfiguration,
                                  - search order hijacking.
                    Path interception helps an attacker to
                              - maintain persistence on a system
                              - escalate privileges.

-------------------
