Which of the following type of access control determines
the usage & access policies of the users and provides that a user can access a resource
only if he or she has the access rights to that resource?


Discretionary access control

Mandatory access control : True

Role-based access control

Rule-based access control

Explanation:
Mandatory Access Control (MAC):
          Determine  usage & access policies of the users.
          Users can access a resource only if that particular user has the access rights to that resource.
          MAC finds its application in the data marked as highly confidential.
          The network administrators impose MAC, depending on the operating system and security kernel.
          It does not permit the end user to decide who can access the information,
          and does not permit the user to pass privileges to other users as the access could then be circumvented.

Discretionary Access Control (DAC):
        Determine  access controls taken by any possessor of an object in order to
                decide the access controls of the subjects on those objects.
        The other name for DAC is a need-to-know access model. (NTK)
        It permits the user, who is granted access to information, to decide :
              - how to protect the information
              - the level of sharing desired.
        Access to files is restricted to users and groups based upon their identity and the groups to which the users belong.

Role Based Access Control (RBAC):
      Access permissions are available based on the access policies determined by the system.
      The access permissions are out of user control, which means that users cannot amend the access policies created by the system.
      Users can be assigned access to systems, files, and fields on a 1-to-1 basis whereby access is granted to the user for a particular file or system.
      It can simplify the assignment of privileges and ensure that individuals have all the privileges necessary to perform their duties.

Rule-Based Access Control (RuBAC):
      End point devices such as firewalls verifies the request made to access the network resources against a set of rules.
      These rules generally include IP addresses, port numbers, etc.

--------------------
A hacker is sniffing the network traffic and trying to crack the encrypted passwords using
        Dictionary, Brute-Force, and Cryptanalysis attacks.
 Which of the following tool helps the hacker to recover the passwords?

Cain and Abel : True
                password recovery tool for Microsoft Operating Systems.
                Allows easy recovery of various kind of passwords by
                                  sniffing the network,
                                  cracking encrypted passwords using Dictionary,
                                  Brute-Force
                                  Cryptanalysis attacks,
                                  recording VoIP conversations,
                                  decoding scrambled passwords,
                                  recovering wireless network keys,
                                  revealing password boxes,
                                  uncovering cached passwords
                                  analyzing routing protocols.
                The program does not exploit any software vulnerabilities or bugs that could not be fixed with a little effort.
                It covers some security aspects/weaknesses present in protocol's standards, authentication methods and caching mechanisms.
                Its main purpose is the simplified recovery of passwords and credentials from various sources; however,
                it also ships some "non standard" utilities for Microsoft Windows users.

Metagoofil : extracts metadata of
                        public documents (pdf, doc, xls, ppt, docx, pptx, and xlsx)
                        belonging to a target company.
             Performs a Google search to
                    - identify
                    - download
                    documents to local disk
             then extracts  metadata with different libraries like Hachoir, PdfMiner and others.
             With the results, it generates a report with
                      usernames, software versions and servers or machine names
            that will help penetration testers in the information gathering phase.

Hoovers : business research company that provides complete details about
                      companies & industries all over the world.
          provides patented business-related information through
              the Internet, data feeds, wireless devices, and co-branding agreements with other online services.
          It gives complete information about the organizations, industries, and people that drive the economy.

Nessus : assessment solution for identifying vulnerabilities, configuration issues, and malware that attackers use to penetrate networks.
        It performs :
            - vulnerability assessment,
            - configuration assessment,
            - compliance assessment.
        It supports various technologies such as
                OS,
                network devices,
                hypervisors,
                databases,
                tablets/phones,
                web servers
                critical infrastructure.

-----------

You have retrieved the raw hash values from a Windows 2000 Domain Controller.
Using social engineering, you know that they are enforcing strong passwords.
You understand that all users are required to use passwords that are at least eight characters in length.
All passwords must also use three of the four following categories: lower-case letters, capital letters, numbers, and special characters.
With your given knowledge of users, likely user account names, and the possibility that they will choose the easiest passwords possible,
what would be the fastest type of password cracking attack you can run against these hash values to get results?

Hybrid Attack: A hybrid attack is more powerful as it uses both a dictionary attack and brute force attack.
                    It also uses symbols and numbers.
                    Password cracking becomes easier with this method.
                    Often, people change their passwords merely by adding some numbers to their old passwords.
                    In this case, the program would add some numbers and symbols to the words from the dictionary to try and crack the password.
                    For example, if the old password is “system,” then there is a chance that the person will change it to “system1” or “system2.”

Replay Attack: In a replay attack, packets and authentication tokens are captured using a sniffer.
                After the relevant info is extracted, the tokens are placed back on the network to gain access.
                The attacker uses this type of attack to replay bank transactions or other similar types of data transfer,
                  in the hope of replicating and/or altering activities, such as banking deposits or transfers.

Dictionary Attack: In a dictionary attack, a dictionary file is loaded into the cracking application that runs against user accounts.
                   This dictionary is the text file that contains a number of dictionary words that are commonly used as passwords.
                   The program uses every word present in the dictionary to find the password.
                   Apart from a standard dictionary, attackers’ dictionaries have added entries with numbers and symbols added to words (e.g., “3December!962”).
                   Simple keyboard finger rolls (“qwer0987”), which many believe to produce random and secure passwords, are thus included in an attacker's dictionary.

Brute-Force Attack: In a brute force attack, attackers try every combination of characters until the password is broken.
                    Cryptographic algorithms must be sufficiently hardened to prevent a brute-force attack,
                    which is defined by the RSA: “Exhaustive key-search, or brute-force search,
                                                  is the basic technique for trying every possible key in turn until the correct key is identified.”

------------

An engineer is learning to write exploits in C++ and is using Kali Linux. The engineer wants to compile the newest C++ exploit and name it calc.exe. Which command would the engineer use to accomplish this?


g++ -i hackersExploit.pl -o calc.exe

g++ --compile –i hackersExploit.cpp -o calc.exe

g++ hackersExploit.py -o calc.exe

g++ hackersExploit.cpp -o calc.exe : True

------------

How can rainbow tables be defeated?

    Password salting :              technique where random strings of characters
                                              are added to the password before calculating their hashes.
                                    This makes it more difficult to reverse the hashes and defeats precomputed hash attacks.

    Use of non-dictionary words :   Rainbow tables can be created for all nondictionary words .

    Lockout accounts under brute force password cracking attempts :
                                    Locking out accounts is not a right answer as the rainbow attacks are
                                          - passive attacks
                                    and   - not performed on live systems.

    All uppercase character passwords :
                                    Rainbow tables can be created for all uppercase characters.

------------

Which of the following is the advantage of adopting a single sign on (SSO) system?




A reduction in overall risk to the system since network and application attacks can only happen at the SSO point

Impacts user experience when an application times out the user needs to login again reducing productivity

Decreased security as the logout process is different across applications

A reduction in password fatigue for users because they do not need to know multiple passwords when accessing multiple applications : TRUE

Explanation:
Advantages of Single Sign On (SSO) system:

        A reduction in password fatigue for users because they do not need to know multiple passwords when accessing multiple applications.
        A reduction in system administration overhead since any user login problems can be resolved at the SSO system.
        Improves usability and user satisfaction through automatic login functionality.
        Users need not maintain multiple passwords and since authentication is performed at a centralized server it improves security.
        Improves productivity through single sign in functionality as it reduces the login time.
        Improves auditing as the SSO system provides easy way of tracking application usage, shared resources usage, etc.
        Improves account management such as account disabling (Disabling hardware and network accounts).

------------------

What statement is true regarding LAN Manager (LM) hashes?


    Uppercase characters in the password are converted to lowercase.

    LM hashes limit the password length to a maximum of 14 characters.

    LM hashes are based on AES128 cryptographic standard.

    LM hashes consist in 48 hexadecimal characters.


    Explanation:
            LAN Manager uses a 14-byte password.
            If the password is less than 14 bytes, it is concatenated with zeros.
            After conversion to uppercase, it is split into two 7-byte halves.
            From each 7-byte half an 8-byte odd parity DES key is constructed.
            Each 8-byte DES key is used to encrypt a fixed value.
            The results of these encryptions are concatenated into a 16-byte value.
            The value obtained is the LAN Manager one-way hash for the password.

    LM hashes limit the length of the password to a maximum of 14 characters.
    What makes the LM hash vulnerable is that an attacker has to go through just 7 characters twice to retrieve passwords up to 14 characters in length.
    There is no salting (randomness) done.
    For instance, if the password is 7 characters or less, the second half will always be a constant (0xAAD3B435B51404EE).
    If it has over 7 characters such as 10, then it is split up into :
          - a password hash of 7 variable characters
          - another password hash of 3 characters.
          The password hash of 3 variable characters can be easily cracked with password crackers such as LOphtCrack.
          It is easy for password crackers to detect if there is an 8-character when the LM password is used.
          The challenge response can then be brute-forced for the LM-hash.
          The number of possible combinations in the LM password is low compared to the Windows NT password.

-----------------------------

How does the SAM database in Windows operating system store the user accounts and passwords?




The operating system stores the passwords in a secret file that users cannot find.

The operating system uses key distribution center (KDC) for storing all user passwords.

The operating system performs a one-way hash of the passwords. : TRUE

The operating system stores all passwords in a protected segment of volatile memory.

Explanation:
Windows uses the security accounts manager (SAM) database or active directory database to
                  manage user accounts & passwords
                      in the hashed format (one-way hash).
The system does not store the passwords in plaintext format, but in hashed format, to protect them from attacks.
    The system implements SAM database as a registry file,
    Windows kernel obtains and keeps an exclusive file system lock on the SAM file.
As this file consists of a file system lock, this provides some measure of security for the storage of passwords.

-------------
A pen tester is using Metasploit to exploit an FTP server and pivot to a LAN.
How will the pen tester pivot using Metasploit?


Create a route statement in the meterpreter. : TRUE

            When malicious activities are performed on the system with Metasploit Framework,
            the Logs of the target system can be wiped out by :
                1- launching meterpreter shell prompt of the Metasploit Framework
                2- type "clearev" command in meterpreter shell prompt
                3- type Enter.

Issue the pivot exploit and set the meterpreter.

Set the payload to propagate through the meterpreter.

Reconfigure the network settings in the meterpreter.

-----------

John the Ripper is a technical assessment tool used to test the weakness of which of the following?


      File permissions

      Passwords : TRUE

      Usernames

      Firewall rulesets

-----------

You need to do an ethical hack for BAYARA Company,
and the manager says that you need to obtain the password of the root account of the main server to hire you.
You are in possession of a rainbow table, what else do you need to obtain the password of the root?


Perform a network recognition

Do a vulnerability assessment

Inject an SQL script into the database

The hash of the root password : TRUE
          To do an offline hacking of the password with a rainbow table, you need the hashes of the passwords.

---------
