Which of the following are valid types of rootkits? (Choose three.)


- Hypervisor level : TRUE

- Application level : TRUE

- Kernel level : TRUE

- Network level

- Data access level

- Physical level

- Explanation:

Hypervisor-level rootkit:
            Attackers create hypervisor-level rootkits
                        by exploiting hardware features such as
                               - Intel VT
                               - AMD-V.
            These rootkits
                    - run in Ring-1,
                    - host the OS of target machine as a virtual machine,
                    - intercept all hardware calls made by the target OS.

            This kind of rootkit
                    - works by: modifying the system’s boot sequence
                    - gets loaded instead of the original virtual machine monitor.

Kernel-level rootkit:
            The kernel is the core of the OS.
            Kernel-level rootkit
                - runs in Ring-0 with highest OS privileges.
                - cover backdoors on the computer
                - created by :
                      - writing additional code
                  or  - substituting portions of kernel code with modified code via :
                                      - device drivers in Windows
                                  or  - loadable kernel modules in Linux.
                - If the kit’s code contains mistakes or bugs, kernel-level rootkits affect the stability of the system.
                - have the same privileges of the OS;
                            => hence, Difficult to detect & intercept
                                      or subvert the operations of OS.

Application-level rootkit:
              Operates inside the victim’s computer by :
                        - replacing the standard application files (application binaries) with rootkits
                    or  - modifying behavior of present applications with :
                                                - patches,
                                                - injected malicious code,....

---------------------------
Fill in the blank   _________________ type of rootkit is most difficult to detect.


Kernel Level Rootkit : TRUE

Hypervisor Rootkit : Hypervisor
                        - hosts OS of target machine as a virtual machine
                    and - intercepts all hardware calls made by the target operating system.

Hardware/Firmware Rootkit :
      Uses device/platform firmware to create persistent malware image in hardware, like HDD, System BIOS, Network Card.
      Code integrity tool does not inspect the integrity of firmware.

Application Rootkit :
      replaces standard application files by modifying behavior of present applications with patches, injected malicious code.

-----------------------

Which of the following is not a defense technique against malicious NTFS streams?


      Use up-to-date antivirus software

      Write critical data to alternate data streams : TRUE

      Move suspected files to FAT partition

      Use File Integrity Monitoring tool like tripwire


      You should do the following to defend against malicious NTFS streams:

          To delete hidden NTFS streams, move the suspected files to FAT partition
          Use third-party file integrity checker such as Tripwire File Integrity Monitor to maintain
          integrity of NTFS partition files against unauthorized ADS
          Use third-party utilities such as EventSentry or adslist.exe to show and manipulate
          hidden streams
          Avoid writing important or critical data to alternate data streams
          Use up-to-date antivirus software on your system.
          Enable real-time antivirus scanning to protect against execution of malicious streams
          Use file-monitoring software such as
                    Stream Detector (http://www.novirusthanks.org)
                    ADS Detector (https://sourceforge.net/projects/adsdetector/?source=directory)
            to help detect creation of additional or new data streams.

--------------------------

Which one of the following techniques is used by attackers to hide their programs?


NTFS Stream :  Using NTFS data steam, an attacker can almost completely hide files within the system.
               It is easy to use the streams but the
                    user can only identify it with specific software.
               Explorer can display only the root files;
                    it cannot view the streams linked to the root files
                    and cannot define the disk space used by the streams.
               As such, if a virus implants itself into ADS,
                    it is unlikely that usual security software will identify it.

Enumeration

Footprinting

Scanning

---------------------

Which one of the following software program helps the attackers to gain unauthorized access to a remote system and perform malicious activities?


Rootkit : TRUE

Anti-spyware

Antivirus

Keylogger

----------------------------------------------

Which type of rootkit is created by attackers
by exploiting hardware features such as
Intel VT and AMD-V?

- Hypervisor Level Rootkit : TRUE

- Hardware/Firmware Rootkit :
      Uses device/platform firmware to create persistent malware image in hardware, like HDD, System BIOS, Network Card.
      Code integrity tool does not inspect the integrity of firmware.


- Boot Loader Level Rootkit :
      Boot loader level (bootkit) rootkits function either by :
                - replacing
            or  - modifying
            legitimate bootloader  with    another one.
      Bootkit  : can activate even before the OS starts.
                 are serious threats to security because
                      they can help in hacking encryption keys and passwords.

- Kernel Level Rootkit :
      The kernel is the core of the OS.
      Kernel-level rootkit
          - runs in Ring-0 with highest OS privileges.
          - cover backdoors on the computer
          - created by :
                - writing additional code
            or  - substituting portions of kernel code with modified code via :
                                - device drivers in Windows
                            or  - loadable kernel modules in Linux.
          - If the kit’s code contains mistakes or bugs, kernel-level rootkits affect the stability of the system.
          - have the same privileges of the OS;
                      => hence, Difficult to detect & intercept
                                or subvert the operations of OS.

-----------------


In the options given below; identify the nature of a library-level rootkit?

- Operates inside the victim’s computer by replacing the standard application files

- Uses devices or platform firmware to create a persistent malware image in hardware

- Functions either by replacing or modifying the legitimate bootloader with another one

- Works higher up in the OS and usually patches, hooks, or supplants system calls with backdoor versions : TRUE


Explanation:
Application Level Rootkit:
      Application level rootkit operates inside the victim’s computer by replacing
                  the standard application files (application binaries)
                          with rootkits
                  or by modifying behavior of present applications
                          with patches,
                               injected malicious code, and so on.

Boot Loader Level Rootkit:
      Boot loader level (bootkit) rootkits
              function either by
                        replacing or modifying
                              the legitimate bootloader with another one.
              can activate even before the operating system starts.
              are serious threats to security because
                      they can help in hacking encryption keys and passwords.

Library Level Rootkits:
      Work higher up in the OS
      usually Patch,
              Hook, or
              Supplant system calls
                  with backdoor versions
                    to keep the attacker unknown.
      Replace original system calls
                      with fake ones
            to hide information about the attacker.

Hardware/Firmware Rootkit:
                  use devices or platform firmware
                      to create a persistent malware image in hardware, such as a
                                hard drive,
                                system BIOS, or
                                network card.
                  hides in firmware as the users
                        do not inspect it for code integrity.
                  implies the use of creating a permanent delusion of rootkit malware.

----------------------

Which of the following techniques refers to the art of hiding data “behind” other data without the target’s knowledge?


-Footprinting

-Enumeration

-Steganography : TRUE

-Scanning

-----------------

In which of the following techniques is
the text or an image considerably condensed in size,
up to one page in a single dot,
to avoid detection by unintended recipients?


-Microdots : TRUE

-Invisible Ink

-Spread Spectrum

-Computer-Based Methods


Explanation:
Microdots:
    A microdot is
          text or an image considerably condensed in size
                (with the help of a reverse microscope),
          up to 1 page in a single dot,
            to avoid detection by unintended recipients.
      Microdots are usually circular,
                    about 1 millimeter in diameter,
                    but are changeable into different shapes and sizes.

Computer-based methods:
            A computer-based method makes changes to digital carriers to embed information foreign to the native carriers.
            Communication of such information occurs in the
                      form of text,
                      binary files,
                      disk and storage devices,
                      and network traffic and protocols,
                      and can alter the software,
                      speech,
                      pictures,
                      videos or
                      any other digitally represented code for transmission.

Invisible ink: Invisible ink,
            or “security ink,” is
            one of the methods of technical steganography.
            Used for invisible writing with colorless liquids and
            can later be made visible by
                    certain pre-negotiated manipulations such as lighting or heating.
            For example, if you use onion juice and milk to write a message,
                          the writing will be invisible,
                              but when heat is applied,
                                  it turns brown and the message becomes visible.

Spread spectrum:
            Less susceptible to interception and jamming.
            In this technique, communication signals
                                      occupy more bandwidth than required to send the information.
            The sender increases the band spread
                          by means of code (independent of data),
            The receiver uses
                          a synchronized reception
                                    with the code to recover the information
                                              from the spread spectrum data.
----------------

Which of the following steganography techniques
allows the user
to add white spaces and tabs
at the end of the lines?


- Folder Steganography

- Video steganography

- Document steganography : TRUE

- Image Steganography

Explanation:

Image Steganography:
      Allows you to conceal your secret message within an image.
      You can take advantage of the redundant bit of the image to conceal your message within it.
      These redundant bits are those bits of the image that have very little effect on the image, if altered.
      Detection of this alteration is not easy.
      You can conceal your information within images of different formats (e.g., .PNG, .JPG, .BMP).

Document Steganography:
      Technique of
                    hiding secret messages transferred in the form of documents.
      It includes addition of
                  white spaces and tabs at the end of the lines.
      Stego-document is a cover document comprising of the hidden message.
      Steganography algorithms,
              referred to as the “stego system,
                are employed for hiding the secret messages in the cover medium at the sender end.
      The same algorithm is used
                for extracting the hidden message from the stego-document by the recipient.

Folder Steganography:
      Folder steganography refers to hiding secret information in folders.
      Files are hidden
            and encrypted
                within a folder
                  and are not seen by the normal Windows applications,
                      including Windows Explorer.

Video Steganography:
      Video steganography refers to hiding secret information
              into a carrier video file.
      The information is hidden in video files of different formats such as
                      .AVI, .MPG4, .WMV, etc.
      Discrete Cosine Transform (DCT) manipulation is used
          to add secret data at the time of the transformation process of the video.
---------------
